The Project Gutenberg eBook of Texas Museum Directory, 1985, by Anonymous

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Texas Museum Directory, 1985

Author: Anonymous

Release Date: May 14, 2021 [eBook #65342]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Stephen Hutcheson and the Online Distributed Proofreading
             Team at https://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TEXAS MUSEUM DIRECTORY, 1985 ***




                         TEXAS MUSEUM DIRECTORY
                                  1985


                     Compiled and Published by the
                  Field and Museum Services Department
                                 of the
                      Texas Historical Commission

                      Texas Historical Commission
                             P.O. Box 12276
                            Austin, TX 78711




                      TEXAS HISTORICAL COMMISSION


The Texas Historical Commission (THC) was created by the state
legislature in 1953 to serve as the official state agency for historical
preservation. During the first years of its existence, the Commission
administered an aggressive program of surveying and marking historic
sites. Subsequent legislation has broadened the activities and
responsibilities of the agency to include different aspects of
historical preservation, such as archeology, downtown revitalization,
publications, work with county historical commissions and other
nonprofit heritage groups, and museums.

The Field and Museum Services Department of the THC provides
professional services to the more than 700 museums across Texas. The
department assists in regional workshops, produces publications,
provides on-site consultations, and maintains extensive reference files
for museums. The Winedale Museum Seminar, a 10-day, intensive training
session for museum professionals and volunteers, is cosponsored by the
department. Another program of the department is the administration of a
state-funded grants program for history museums. One museum—the Sam
Rayburn House Museum in Bonham—is maintained and administered by the
THC.

The Texas Historical Commission consists of 18 governor-appointed
members who function as a board of directors, overseeing a staff of
historians, archeologists, architects, museologists, and experts in
related fields. Current Commission members are listed below.

  George E. Christian, Austin, _Chairman_
  Mrs. H.L. Long, Kilgore, _Vice-chairman_
  Duncan E. Boeckman, Dallas, _Secretary_
  John M. Bennett, San Antonio
  Mrs. James F. Biggart, Jr., Dallas
  Richard H. Collins, Dallas
  Barney M. Davis, Sr., Somerville
  T.R. Fehrenbach, San Antonio
  Maxine E. Flournoy, Alice
  Woodrow Glasscock, Jr., Hondo
  Harry A. Golemon, Houston
  Mrs. Albert G. Hill, Dallas
  Dr. Robert D. Hunter, Abilene
  James S. Nabors, Lake Jackson
  Gay Ratliff, Austin
  Louis P. Terrazas, San Antonio
  Evangeline L. Whorton, Galveston Island
  Dr. Dan A. Willis, Fort Worth




                                PREFACE


Perhaps one of the words that best describes Texas is variety. Whether
one is considering weather, geography, cultural groups, or architecture,
a variety is available in the Lone Star State.

Texas museums offer a microcosm of the state’s varied cultural and
historical resources. Ranging from small county history museums kept
alive by volunteer efforts to well-endowed, sophisticated art
institutions in metropolitan areas, Texas museums offer something for
everyone.

These museums contain the cultural treasures of Texas. They often
feature valuable collections of antiquities, documents, and photographs.
Many museums display unusual exhibits that are educational,
entertaining, and valuable to researchers. The wealth of varied
information contained in Texas museums definitely makes them worth a
visit.

The simple purpose of this book is to let you know where museums are
located in Texas, what they have to offer, and when they are open to the
public. Information in this book was compiled from a survey of museums
completed in 1984. For more detailed information on Texas museums, we
refer you to _Texas Museums—A Guidebook_ by Paula Eyrich Tyler and Ron
Tyler, which is available in bookstores.

                                            Cindy Sherrell-Leo, Director
                                    Field and Museum Services Department
                                             Texas Historical Commission
                                                           Austin, Texas
                                                            October 1984




                            MUSEUMS IN TEXAS
                            (Listed by City)


_ABILENE, TAYLOR COUNTY_

  ABILENE FINE ARTS MUSEUM
  801 South Mockingbird
  Abilene, TX 79605
  915/673-4587
  Open: Tues.-Fri., 9-5; Sat.-Sun., 1-5
  Type: Art
  Exhibits: Art
  Fee: None

  WOMEN OF ACU MUSEUM
  7 Lytle Place
  Abilene, TX 79602
  915/677-6460
  Open: Special Occasions
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_ALBANY, SHACKELFORD COUNTY_

  LEDBETTER PICKET HOUSE
  700 Railroad St.
  Albany, TX 76430
  915/762-3087
  Open: Daily, 8-5
  Type: Historic House
  Exhibits: Historic House
  Fee: None

  THE OLD JAIL ART CENTER
  Highway 6 East
  Route 1, Box 1
  Albany, TX 76430
  915/762-2269
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 10-5; Sun., 2-6
  Type: Art/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Art
  Fee: None


_ALICE, JIM WELLS COUNTY_

  SOUTH TEXAS MUSEUM
  66 South Wright
  P.O. Box 3232
  Alice, TX 78332
  512/668-8891
  Open: Tues.-Fri., 1-5
  Type: History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building
  Fee: Donation


_ALPINE, BREWSTER COUNTY_

  MUSEUM OF THE BIG BEND
  Sul Ross State University
  Box C-210
  Alpine, TX 79832
  915/837-8143
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 9-5; Sun., 1-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Art, Archeology, Prehistory
  Fee: None


_ALVIN, BRAZORIA COUNTY_

  ALVIN MUSEUM
  Science Building
  Alvin Community College
  Alvin, TX 77511
  713/331-6458
  Open: By Appointment
  Type: Local History
  Exhibits: Artifacts and Photographs Relating to Southeast Texas
  Fee: None


_AMARILLO, POTTER-RANDALL COUNTY_

  AMARILLO ART CENTER
  2200 Van Buren
  P.O. Box 447
  Amarillo, TX 79109
  806/372-8356
  Open: Tues.-Fri., 10-5; Sat-Sun., 1-5
  Type: Art
  Exhibits: Art
  Fee: None

  DON HARRINGTON DISCOVERY CENTER
  1200 Streit Dr.
  Amarillo, TX 79106
  806/355-9547
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 8-5; Sat., 10-5 and 7-9; Sun., 1-5 (September-May
              only)
  Type: General/Science
  Exhibits: Medical and Physical Science
  Fee: None


_ANAHUAC, CHAMBERS COUNTY_

  CHAMBERS COUNTY HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  Courthouse Annex
  Anahuac, TX 77514
  409/267-3543 or 3452
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 8-5; Sat.-Sun. By Appointment
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Archeology
  Fee: None

  DR. NICHOLAS T. SCHILLING’S MEDICAL OFFICE MUSEUM
  Washington Ave. and Cummings St.
  Anahuac, TX 77514
  409/267-3452
  Open: By Appointment
  Type: General/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Medical Supplies and Paraphernalia
  Fee: None


_ANGLETON, BRAZORIA COUNTY_

  BRAZORIA COUNTY HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  Brazoria County Courthouse
  100 Cedar St.
  P.O. Box 1222
  Angleton, TX 77515
  409/849-5711, ext. 455
  Open: Thurs.-Sat., 1-5
  Type: History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Pre-Statehood, Archeology,
              Prehistory, Historic Building
  Fee: None


_ARCHER CITY, ARCHER COUNTY_

  ARCHER COUNTY MUSEUM
  400 West Pecan
  Box 656
  Archer City, TX 76351
  817/423-6426
  Open: May-September, Weekends
  Type: History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Natural History
  Fee: None


_ARLINGTON, TARRANT COUNTY_

  FIELDER MUSEUM
  1616 West Abram
  Arlington, TX 76013
  817/460-4001
  Open: Tues.-Fri., 9:30-2:30; Sun., 1:30-4:30
  Type: History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building
  Fee: None

  UNIVERSITY ART GALLERY
  Fine Arts Building
  601 Monroe St.
  Box 19089, UTA Station
  Arlington, TX 76019
  817/273-2891
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 9-4; Sun., 1-4
  Type: Art
  Exhibits: Art and Architecture
  Fee: None


_ARP, SMITH COUNTY_

  ARBORETUM, INC.
  McDonald Farms and Campground
  Route 1
  Arp, TX 75750
  214/859-7574
  Open: By Appointment
  Type: Living Museum
  Exhibits: Trees and Bushes Native to the Area
  Fee: None


_AUSTIN, TRAVIS COUNTY_

  ARCHER M. HUNTINGTON ART GALLERY
  23rd and San Jacinto
  Austin, TX 78712
  512/471-7324
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 9-5; Sun., 1-5
  Type: Art
  Exhibits: Art
  Fee: None

  AUSTIN CHILDREN’S MUSEUM
  Perry Brooks Building #702
  Austin, TX 78701
  512/472-2494
  Open: Call for Hours
  Type: General
  Exhibits: Rotating Exhibits on Various Interests for Children
  Fee: None

  AUSTIN NATURE CENTER
  401 Deep Eddy Ave.
  Austin, TX 78703
  512/472-4523
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 8-5; Sat., 9-5; Sun., 1-5
  Type: Science
  Exhibits: Science, Natural History, Botany, Zoo
  Fee: None

  BARKER TEXAS HISTORY CENTER
  University of Texas at Austin
  Sid Richardson Hall, Unit 2
  Austin, TX 78712
  512/471-5961
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 8-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Texas History and Historical Research on Texas
  Fee: None

  CONFEDERATE MUSEUM, U.D.C.
  112 East 11th St.
  Austin, TX 78701
  512/472-2596
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 9-12, 1-5
  Type: History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Collection of 1861-1865
  Fee: None

  DAUGHTERS OF THE REPUBLIC OF TEXAS OLD LAND OFFICE MUSEUM
  112 East 11th St.
  Austin, TX 78701
  512/477-1822
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 9-12, 1-5
  Type: General History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None

  ELISABET NEY MUSEUM
  304 East 44th St.
  Austin, TX 78751
  512/458-2255
  Open: Tues.-Fri., 11-4:30; Sat.-Sun., 2-4:30
  Type: History/Art/Historic Site
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Art, Historic Building/Site
  Fee: None

  FRENCH LEGATION MUSEUM
  802 San Marcos St.
  Austin, TX 78702
  512/472-8180
  Open: Tues.-Sun., 1-5
  Type: General/History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Creole Furnishings and an Authentic Early French Kitchen
  Fee: Adults $1; Children 50¢

  GEORGE WASHINGTON CARVER MUSEUM
  1165 Angelina
  Austin, TX 78702
  512/472-8954
  Open: Tues.-Wed., 10-6; Thurs., 12-8; Fri.-Sat., 12-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local History, Art, Black Culture
  Fee: None

  GOVERNOR’S MANSION
  11th and Colorado
  Austin, TX 78711
  512/475-2121
  Open: Public Tours from 10-12 Mon., Wed., Fri.
  Type: General History/Historic Site
  Exhibits: Historic Building/Site and Governor History
  Fee: None

  JOURDAN BACHMAN PIONEER FARM
  11418 Sprinkle Cut-Off Rd.
  Austin, TX 78754
  512/837-1215
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 9-1
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: $1 per hour

  LAGUNA GLORIA ART MUSEUM
  3809 West 35th St.
  P.O. Box 5568
  Austin, TX 78763
  512/458-8191
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 10-5; Sun., 1-5; Thurs., 10-9
  Type: Art
  Exhibits: Art
  Fee: None

  LBJ LIBRARY AND MUSEUM
  2313 Red River
  Austin, TX 78705
  512/482-5137
  Open: Daily, 9-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Presidential Library and History Exhibits
  Fee: None

  LEEDS GALLERY
  Academic Center
  4th Floor, Harry Ransom Center
  Box 7219
  University of Texas at Austin
  Austin, TX 78712
  512/471-4664
  Open: Weekdays, 8-4:45
  Type: Art
  Exhibits: Art and Literary Collections
  Fee: None

  MICHENER GALLERY
  Harry Ransom Center
  21st and Guadalupe
  Austin, TX 78712
  512/471-7324
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 9-5; Sun., 1-5
  Type: Art
  Exhibits: Art
  Fee: None

  MOODY HALL ATRIUM GALLERY
  St. Edward’s University
  3001 South Congress Ave.
  Austin, TX 78704
  512/444-2621, ext. 327
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 8-8; Sat.-Sun., 8-5
  Type: Art
  Exhibits: Local or Area Art
  Fee: Donation

  MUSEO DEL BARRIO DE AUSTIN
  1619 East First St.
  Austin, TX 78702
  512/477-5770
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 9-5
  Type: Art
  Exhibits: Chicano and Latino Art
  Fee: None

  NEILL-COCHRAN MUSEUM HOUSE
  2310 San Gabriel
  Austin, TX 78705
  512/478-2335
  Open: Wed.-Sun., 2-5
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History and Art
  Fee: $1

  O. HENRY MUSEUM
  409 East Fifth St.
  Austin, TX 78701
  512/472-1903
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 11-4:30; Sun., 2-4:30
  Type: History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building/Site and O.
              Henry Memorabilia
  Fee: None

  TEXAS MEMORIAL MUSEUM
  2400 Trinity
  Austin, TX 78705
  512/471-1604
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 9-5; Sat.-Sun., 1-5
  Type: Natural History
  Exhibits: History, Natural History, Archeology, Prehistory, and
              Mineralogy
  Fee: None


_AZLE, TARRANT COUNTY_

  AZLE HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  124 West Main
  P.O. Box 240
  Azle, TX 76020
  No Telephone
  Open: Tues.-Thurs., 12-4, By Appointment
  Type: General/History/Art
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Science, and Art
  Fee: None


_BAIRD, CALLAHAN COUNTY_

  CALLAHAN COUNTY PIONEER MUSEUM
  Fourth and Market Sts.
  Baird, TX 79504
  915/854-1718
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 9-12, 1-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Early History of the County
  Fee: None


_BANDERA, BANDERA COUNTY_

  FRONTIER TIMES MUSEUM
  506 13th St.
  P.O. Box 563
  Bandera, TX 78003
  512/796-3864
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 10-12, 1-4:30; Sun., 1-4:30
  Type: General/History/Art/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History and Art
  Fee: Adults $1; Students 25¢

  OLD JAIL MUSEUM AND ART GALLERY
  1 Block East of Highway 16 and Main St.
  P.O. Box 578
  Bandera, TX 78003
  512/796-4420
  Open: Daily, 10-5
  Type: History/Art
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History and Art
  Fee: 25¢


_BASTROP, BASTROP COUNTY_

  BASTROP COUNTY HISTORICAL SOCIETY MUSEUM
  702 Main St.
  Bastrop, TX 78602
  512/321-6177
  Open: Sat. and Sun. afternoons
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: Adults 50¢; Children 25¢


_BAY CITY, MATAGORDA COUNTY_

  MATAGORDA COUNTY HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  1824 Sixth St.
  Box 851
  Bay City, TX 77414
  409/245-7502
  Open: Tues.-Fri., 3-5; Sun., 2-5
  Type: General/History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Archeology, and Mineralogy
  Fee: None


_BAYTOWN, HARRIS COUNTY_

  BAYTOWN HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  Community Building
  3430 Market St.
  Baytown, TX 77520
  713/427-8768
  Open: Sun.-Fri., 1-5
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_BEAUMONT, JEFFERSON COUNTY_

  BABE DIDRIKSON ZAHARIAS MEMORIAL
  Gulf Street Exit off I-10
  Beaumont, TX 77703
  713/833-4622
  Open: Daily, 9-5
  Type: General
  Exhibits: Didrikson Memorials
  Fee: None

  BEAUMONT ART MUSEUM
  1111 Ninth St.
  Beaumont, TX 77702
  409/832-3432
  Open: Tues.-Fri., 10-5; Sat.-Sun., 2-5
  Type: Art
  Exhibits: Art
  Fee: None

  EDISON PLAZA MUSEUM
  350 Pine St.
  P.O. Box 3652
  Beaumont, TX 77704
  409/839-3089
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 8-5
  Type: History/Science
  Exhibits: Science/Historic Building/Thomas Edison Industry
  Fee: None

  GLADYS CITY BOOMTOWN
  University Dr. and U.S. 69/96/287
  P.O. Box 10082, Lamar University
  Beaumont, TX 77710
  409/838-8896 or 835-0823
  Open: Tues.-Fri., 1-5; Sat., 9-5; Sun., 1-5
  Type: History/Historic Site
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: Adults 50¢

  JOHN JAY FRENCH MUSEUM
  2989 French Rd.
  Beaumont, TX 77706
  409/898-0348
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 10-4; Sun., 1-4
  Type: History/Historic Site/Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History and Art
  Fee: Adults $1; Students 50¢

  SPINDLETOP MUSEUM
  950 East Florida
  P.O. Box 10082, Lamar University
  Beaumont, TX 77710
  409/838-8896
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 1-5
  Type: History/Historic Site
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_BEEVILLE, BEE COUNTY_

  BEE COUNTY HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  611 East Corpus Christi
  Beeville, TX 78102
  512/358-6393
  Open: By Appointment
  Type: General
  Exhibits: Local History and Antique Furniture
  Fee: Donation


_BELTON, BELL COUNTY_

  SID RICHARDSON MUSEUM
  Mabee Student Center
  University of Mary Hardin-Baylor
  Belton, TX 76513
  817/939-5811
  Open: By Appointment
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: University of Mary Hardin-Baylor History
  Fee: None


_BENJAMIN, KNOX COUNTY_

  KNOX COUNTY MUSEUM
  Courthouse
  U.S. 82 and S.H. 6
  Benjamin, TX 79505
  817/454-2191
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 8-5
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_BIGFOOT, FRIO COUNTY_

  BIGFOOT WALLACE MUSEUM
  FM 462
  P.O. Box 34
  Bigfoot, TX 78005
  512/663-4395
  Open: Upon Request
  Type: General/History/Historic Site
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: Adults $1; Children 50¢


_BIG SPRING, HOWARD COUNTY_

  HERITAGE MUSEUM
  510 Scurry
  Big Spring, TX 79720
  915/267-8255
  Open: Tues.-Fri., 10-5; Sat., 1-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Art, Archeology, and Prehistory
  Fee: Donation


_BOERNE, KENDALL COUNTY_

  HISTORICAL HOUSE MUSEUM
  402 East Blanco St.
  Boerne, TX 78006
  512/249-2469
  Open: Thurs., 2-5 and By Appointment
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Historic Building and Site
  Fee: Donation

  THEIS HOUSE
  Corner of Main and Newton
  Boerne, TX 78006
  No Telephone
  Open: By Appointment
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Site and Building
  Fee: Donation


_BONHAM, FANNIN COUNTY_

  FANNIN COUNTY HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  Courthouse, Third Floor
  Bonham, TX 75418
  214/583-8042
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 8-12, 1-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None

  OLD FORT INGLISH REPLICA
  U.S. 82 West
  Bonham, TX 75418
  214/583-3441
  Open: April-September, 9-5; Weekends, 1-5
  Type: General/History, Historic Site/Building
  Exhibits: Historic Building and Site
  Fee: Donation

  SAM RAYBURN HOUSE
  ½ Mile West of City Limits on U.S. 82
  Route 3, Box 308
  Bonham, TX 75418
  214/583-5558
  Open: Tues.-Fri., 10-5; Sat., 1-5; Sun., 2-5
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Historic Home and Contents
  Fee: None

  SAM RAYBURN LIBRARY
  West Sam Rayburn Dr.
  P.O. Box 309
  Bonham, TX 75418
  214/583-2455
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 10-5; Sat., 1-5; Sun., 2-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Historical Mementos Pertaining to Sam Rayburn
  Fee: None


_BORGER, HUTCHINSON COUNTY_

  HUTCHINSON COUNTY MUSEUM
  618 North Main
  Box 325
  Borger, TX 79007
  806/273-6121
  Open: Weekdays, 11-4:30; Sun., 2-4; Closed Tues.
  Type: History/Historic Building and Site
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Archeology and Prehistory
  Fee: None


_BRACKETTVILLE, KINNEY COUNTY_

  THE OLD GUARDHOUSE MUSEUM
  Fort Clark Historical Society of Kinney County
  Box 1061
  Brackettville, TX 78832
  512/563-2996
  Open: Sat.-Sun., 1-4
  Type: Historic Site/Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_BRADY, McCULLOCH COUNTY_

  HEART OF TEXAS HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  117 High St.
  Brady, TX 76858
  No Telephone
  Open: Sat.-Mon., 1-5
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_BRAZOSPORT, BRAZORIA COUNTY_

  BRAZOSPORT MUSEUM OF NATURAL SCIENCE
  400 College Dr.
  Brazosport, TX 77566
  409/265-7831
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 10-5; Sun., 2-5
  Type: General
  Exhibits: Shell Collection and Science
  Fee: None


_BRECKENRIDGE, STEPHENS COUNTY_

  BRECKENRIDGE AVIATION MUSEUM
  Stephens County Airport
  Breckenridge, TX 76024
  817/559-3201
  Open: Daily
  Type: History
  Exhibits: World War II Aircrafts
  Fee: None

  J. D. SANDEFER OIL ANNEX
  116 West Walker
  P.O. Box 350
  Breckenridge, TX 76024
  817/559-8471
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 1-5
  Type: History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building, and Oil
              History
  Fee: None

  SWENSON MEMORIAL MUSEUM OF STEPHENS COUNTY
  116 West Walker
  P.O. Box 350
  Breckenridge, TX 76024
  817/559-8471
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 10-12, 1-4
  Type: Historic/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Archeology, Prehistory, Historic
              Building and Site
  Fee: None


_BRENHAM, WASHINGTON COUNTY_

  GIDDINGS-WILKIN MUSEUM
  805 Crockett St.
  P.O. Box 1123
  Brenham, TX 77833
  409/836-3695
  Open: By Appointment
  Type: History/Art/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Art, Historic Site and Building
  Fee: $1.50


_BROOKSHIRE, WALLER COUNTY_

  WALLER COUNTY HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  906 Cooper St.
  P.O. Box 235
  Brookshire, TX 77423
  713/934-2826
  Open: Weekdays, except Thurs., 10-2
  Type: General/History/Historic Site
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building and Site
  Fee: None


_BROWNFIELD, TERRY COUNTY_

  TERRY COUNTY HERITAGE MUSEUM
  602 East Cardwell St.
  Brownfield, TX 79316
  806/637-2467
  Open: Wed. and Sun., 2-4 and By Appointment
  Type: Historic Building/Site/History
  Exhibits: History of the Area
  Fee: 25¢


_BROWNSVILLE, CAMERON COUNTY_

  BROWNSVILLE ART LEAGUE MUSEUM
  Neale Dr.
  P.O. Box 3404
  Brownsville, TX 78520
  512/542-0941
  Open: Mon., Wed., Thurs., Fri., 9:30-3; Tues., 1-4
  Type: Art/Historic Building/Site
  Exhibits: Art
  Fee: None

  STILLMAN HOUSE MUSEUM
  1300 East Washington
  Box 846
  Brownsville, TX 78520
  512/542-3929
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 10-12, 2-5; Sun., 2-5
  Type: History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: $1


_BRYAN, BRAZOS COUNTY_

  BRAZOS VALLEY MUSEUM
  3232 Briarcrest Dr.
  Bryan, TX 77801
  409/779-2195
  Open: Thurs.-Sat., 9-5; Sun., 1-5
  Type: General
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History and Natural History
  Fee: None


_BURNET, BURNET COUNTY_

  FORT CROGHAN MUSEUM
  Highway 29 West
  P.O. Box 74
  Burnet, TX 78611
  512/756-8281
  Open: April-September, Mon.-Wed. and Sat., 8-5; Sun., 10-4
  Type: History/Historic Buildings
  Exhibits: Six Historic Buildings, Local and Pioneer History, Early
              Texas History
  Fee: Donation

  LONGHORN CAVERN MUSEUM
  10 Miles Southwest of Burnet off U.S. 281
  Longhorn Cavern State Park
  Burnet, TX 78611
  512/756-4680
  Open: Daily, 9-5; Wed.-Sun., 9-3
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local History and Mineralogy
  Fee: None


_CALDWELL, BURLESON COUNTY_

  BURLESON COUNTY HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  County Courthouse
  Caldwell, TX 77836
  No Telephone
  Open: Fri., 2-5 and By Appointment
  Type: General
  Exhibits: Indian Artifacts and Other Archeological Materials, Local
              and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_CAMERON, MILAM COUNTY_

  MILAM COUNTY HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  Main and Fannin
  P.O. Box 966
  Cameron, TX 76520
  817/697-9223
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 9-12, 1-5
  Type: History/Historic Site and Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: Donation


_CANYON, RANDALL COUNTY_

  PANHANDLE-PLAINS HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  2401 Fourth Ave.
  Box 967, W.T. Station
  Canyon, TX 79016
  806/655-7191
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 9-5; Sun., 2-5
  Type: History/Art/Science
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Science, Natural History, Art,
              Archeology, Prehistory, Historic Building and Site, and
              Mineralogy
  Fee: None


_CARROLLTON, DALLAS COUNTY_

  A. W. PERRY HOMESTEAD MUSEUM
  1509 North Perry
  Carrollton, TX 75006
  214/323-5019
  Open: Tues. and Thurs., 1-4; Sun., 1:30-4
  Type: Historic Site/Building/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building and Site
  Fee: None


_CARTHAGE, PANOLA COUNTY_

  PANOLA COUNTY HISTORICAL JAIL MUSEUM
  North Shelby St.
  Carthage, TX 75633
  No Telephone
  Open: Weekdays, 3:30-5:30; Sat., 9-12
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building and Site
  Fee: Adults 50¢; Students 15¢


_CENTER, SHELBY COUNTY_

  SHELBY COUNTY MUSEUM
  Shelbyville and Riggs St.
  Center, TX 75935
  409/598-5470
  Open: By Appointment
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_CHAPPELL HILL, WASHINGTON COUNTY_

  CHAPPELL HILL HISTORICAL SOCIETY MUSEUM
  College St.
  P.O. Box 211
  Chappell Hill, TX 77426
  409/836-9127
  Open: Sun., 1:30-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_CHILDRESS, CHILDRESS COUNTY_

  CHILDRESS COUNTY HERITAGE MUSEUM
  210 Third St., NW
  Childress, TX 79201
  817/937-2261
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 9-5; Sat., 9-1
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Archeology and Prehistory
  Fee: None


_CLEBURNE, JOHNSON COUNTY_

  LAYLAND MUSEUM
  201 North Caddo St.
  Cleburne, TX 76031
  817/641-3321, ext. 375
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 10-12, 1-5; Sat., 9-1
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_CLEVELAND, LIBERTY COUNTY_

  AUSTIN MEMORIAL CENTER
  220 South Bonham
  Cleveland, TX 77327
  713/592-3920
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 9:30-5; Tues., 12-8; Sat., 9:30-12:30
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_CLIFTON, BOSQUE COUNTY_

  BOSQUE MEMORIAL MUSEUM
  South Ave. Q
  Clifton, TX 76634
  817/675-8733 or 3845
  Open: Fri.-Sat., 10-5; Sun., 2-5
  Type: General History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: Adults $1; Students 50¢


_COLDSPRING, SAN JACINTO COUNTY_

  SAN JACINTO COUNTY OLD JAIL MUSEUM
  Slade St.
  P.O. Box 505
  Coldspring, TX 77331
  409/653-4671
  Open: Sat.-Sun., 1-4
  Type: General/History/Art/Historic Site/Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Art, Historic Site and Building
  Fee: None


_COLEMAN, COLEMAN COUNTY_

  COLEMAN MUSEUM
  City Park
  Coleman, TX 76834
  915/625-4128
  Open: Sat.-Sun., 1-6 in April, May, and September; Daily 1-6 (except
              Thurs.) in June, July, and August
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_COLLEGE STATION, BRAZOS COUNTY_

  TEXAS A&M UNIVERSITY ART EXHIBITS
  J. E. Rudder Exhibit Hall
  College Station, TX 77844
  409/845-8501
  Open: Daily, 8-11
  Type: Art
  Exhibits: Art
  Fee: None

  TEXAS A&M UNIVERSITY ART EXHIBITS
  Memorial Student Center Gallery
  College Station, TX 77844
  409/845-1515
  Open: Daily, 8-8
  Type: Art
  Exhibits: Art
  Fee: None


_COLORADO CITY, MITCHELL COUNTY_

  COLORADO CITY MUSEUM
  183 West Third St.
  Colorado City, TX 79512
  915/728-8285
  Open: Tues.-Sun., 2-5
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Archeology, Prehistory, Paleontology, and Pioneer Settlement
  Fee: Donation


_COLUMBUS, COLORADO COUNTY_

  ALLEY LOG CABIN HOUSE MUSEUM
  1200 Bowie St.
  P.O. Box 817
  Columbus, TX 78934
  409/732-5881
  Open: Third Weekend in May and for Special Tours
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: $2.50

  KOLIBA HOME MUSEUM COMPLEX
  1124 Front St.
  Columbus, TX 78934
  409/732-2913
  Open: Daily, 10-6
  Type: General/Historic Site/Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building and Site
  Fee: Adults $1; Children 50¢

  TATE-SENFTENBERG-BRANDON HOUSE
  616 Walnut St.
  P.O. Box 817
  Columbus, TX 78934
  409/732-5881
  Open: Spring and Fall
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: $2.50

  UNITED DAUGHTERS OF THE CONFEDERACY MUSEUM
  County Courthouse Square
  Columbus, TX 78934
  No Telephone
  Open: Third Weekend in May and Special Occasions
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_COMANCHE, COMANCHE COUNTY_

  BURKS MUSEUM
  Highway 16 North
  Comanche, TX 76442
  915/356-3302
  Open: Sun., 1-5
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: 50¢

  COMANCHE COUNTY MUSEUM
  West Moorman Rd.
  P.O. Box 22
  Comanche, TX 76442
  No Telephone
  Open: Sun., 2-4:30 and Special Appointments
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_COMFORT, KENDALL COUNTY_

  COMFORT HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  Corner of Eighth and High Sts.
  P.O. Box 244
  Comfort, TX 78013
  512/995-3807
  Open: By Appointment
  Type: General/History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building and Site
  Fee: None


_COOPER, DELTA COUNTY_

  DELTA COUNTY PATTERSONS MEMORIAL MUSEUM
  700 West Dallas Ave.
  Cooper, TX 75432
  214/395-2934
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 8-4
  Type: General/History/Historic Building and Site
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building and Site
  Fee: None


_CORPUS CHRISTI, NUECES COUNTY_

  ART MUSEUM OF SOUTH TEXAS
  1902 North Shoreline Dr.
  Corpus Christi, TX 78403
  512/883-3844
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 10-5; Sun., 1-5
  Type: Art
  Exhibits: Art
  Fee: None

  CENTENNIAL HOUSE
  411 North Broadway
  Corpus Christi, TX 78401
  512/882-8691
  Open: Special Tours
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Historic Building and Site
  Fee: Adults $1; Children 50¢

  CORPUS CHRISTI MUSEUM
  1900 North Chaparral
  Corpus Christi, TX 78401
  512/883-2862
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 10-5; Sun., 2-5
  Type: General/History/Art/Science
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Science, Natural History, Art,
              Archeology, Prehistory, Botany, and Mineralogy
  Fee: None

  MUSEUM OF ORIENTAL CULTURES
  426 South Staples St.
  Corpus Christi, TX 78401
  512/883-1303
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 10-12, 1-4; Sun., 2-5
  Type: General
  Exhibits: Hakata Dolls, Masks, Architectural Scale Models of Shrines
              and Temples, Reproductions of Classic Oriental Work
  Fee: Adults $1; Students 35¢; Children under 12 25¢

  OLD TEXAS MUSEUM
  819 Ayers St.
  Corpus Christi, TX 78404
  512/882-5219
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 9-5:30; Sun., 1:30-6
  Type: General/History/Art/Collection
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: Adults $1; Students 50¢

  SOUTH TEXAS ARTMOBILE
  Corpus Christi University
  6300 Ocean Dr.
  Corpus Christi, TX 78412
  512/991-6810, ext. 372
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 9-5
  Type: Art
  Exhibits: Art
  Fee: None


_CORSICANA, NAVARRO COUNTY_

  PIONEER VILLAGE
  912 West Park Ave.
  Corsicana, TX 75110
  214/872-1468
  Open: Mon.-Fri.; Sat. and Sun. Evenings
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: Adults 50¢; Children 25¢


_COUPLAND, WILLIAMSON COUNTY_

  COUPLAND MUSEUM
  Hoxy St.
  Box 56
  Coupland, TX 78615
  512/856-2484
  Open: Fri., Sat., and Sun. and by Special Request
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Mementos and Artifacts from Early Railroad Days in Central
              Texas
  Fee: Donation


_CRANE, CRANE COUNTY_

  CRANE COUNTY HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  409 South Gaston St.
  Crane, TX 79731
  915/558-2110
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 9-4
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_CRESSON, HOOD COUNTY_

  HAL S. SMITH FARM MACHINERY MUSEUM
  Highway 171 South
  Box 88
  Cresson, TX 76035
  817/396-2736
  Open: By Appointment
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None

  STURDY’S PRAIRIE BOX HOUSE MUSEUM
  Three Blocks East of U.S. 377
  Cresson, TX 76035
  817/283-3640 or 396-4371
  Open: June, July, and August, Wed.-Sun., 1-5; Group Tours by
              Appointment
  Type: General/History/Historic Site/Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Site and Building
  Fee: Nominal Admission Charge


_CROCKETT, HOUSTON COUNTY_

  HISTORICAL AND CULTURAL ACTIVITIES CENTER OF HOUSTON COUNTY
  629 North Fourth
  Crockett, TX 75835
  409/544-5304
  Open: Sun., 2-4
  Type: History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building and Site
  Fee: $1

  HOUSTON COUNTY MUSEUM
  303 South First
  Crockett, TX 75835
  409/544-5304
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 8-5
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: Donation

  MONROE-CROOK HOUSE
  707 East Houston
  Crockett, TX 75835
  409/544-5820
  Open: Wed., 9-12; Sat.-Sun., 2-4
  Type: History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building and Site
  Fee: $2


_CROSBYTON, CROSBY COUNTY_

  CROSBY COUNTY PIONEER MEMORIAL MUSEUM AND COMMUNITY CENTER
  101 Main
  P.O. Box 386
  Crosbyton, TX 79322
  806/675-2331
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 9-12, 2-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Regional, Local, and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_CROWELL, FOARD COUNTY_

  FIRE HALL MUSEUM
  116 North Main
  Crowell, TX 79227
  No Telephone
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 10-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None

  FOARD COUNTY COURTHOUSE MUSEUM
  County Courthouse
  Crowell, TX 79227
  817/474-2581
  Open: Daily, 9-5
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None

  FOARD COUNTY MUSEUM
  McAdams Ranch
  Crowell, TX 79227
  817/655-3395
  Open: June-September by Appointment Only
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Early Ranching Families
  Fee: None


_CUERO, DEWITT COUNTY_

  DEWITT COUNTY HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  312 East Broadway
  P.O. Box 745
  Cuero, TX 77954
  512/275-6322
  Open: Thurs.-Fri., 9-5; Sun., 2-5
  Type: History/Historic Site/Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Art, Archeology, Historic
              Building and Site
  Fee: Donation


_DAINGERFIELD, MORRIS COUNTY_

  MORRIS COUNTY HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  Route 1, Box 280
  Daingerfield, TX 75638
  No Telephone
  Open: Sun., 2-5
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_DALHART, DALLAM-HARTLEY COUNTY_

  XIT MUSEUM
  108 East Fifth St.
  Dalhart, TX 79022
  806/249-5390
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 2-5; First Sunday of Each Month, 2-5
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: Donation


_DALLAS, DALLAS COUNTY_

  AFRICAN-AMERICAN CULTURAL HERITAGE CENTER
  Nolan Estes Educational Plaza
  3634 South R.L. Thornton Freeway
  Dallas, TX 75224
  214/375-1600
  Open: 10-4 on School Days
  Type: General
  Exhibits: Contributions of Afro-American Culture
  Fee: None

  AGE OF STEAM MUSEUM
  Washington and Parry
  Dallas, TX 75226
  214/361-6936
  Open: Sun., 11-5
  Type: General
  Exhibits: Railroading
  Fee: Adults $1; Children 50¢

  ASIAN-AMERICAN CULTURAL HERITAGE CENTER
  Tom Gooch Early Childhood Center
  4030 Calculus Rd.
  Dallas, TX 75234
  214/241-6111
  Open: 10-12 and 1-4 on School Days
  Type: General
  Exhibits: Asian Arts
  Fee: None

  BIBLICAL ARTS CENTER
  7500 Park Ln.
  Dallas, TX 75225
  214/691-4661
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 10-5; Sun., 1-5
  Type: Art
  Exhibits: Art, Archeology, and Prehistory
  Fee: None

  DALLAS AQUARIUM
  First and Martin Luther King
  Dallas, TX 75226
  214/428-3587
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 9-5; Sun., 1-5
  Type: General
  Exhibits: Science, Planetarium, and Aquatic Animals
  Fee: None

  DALLAS CIVIC GARDEN CENTER
  Fair Park
  Dallas, TX 75226
  214/428-7476
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 10-5; Sat., 9-5; Sun., 2-5
  Type: General
  Exhibits: Botany and Planetarium
  Fee: Adults 50¢; Children 25¢; Free from 9-1, Sat.

  DALLAS MUSEUM OF ART
  1717 North Harwood St.
  Dallas, TX 75201
  214/421-4187
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 10-5; Sun., 1-5
  Type: Art
  Exhibits: Art
  Fee: None

  DALLAS MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY
  Second and Grand
  P.O. Box 26193, Fair Park
  Dallas, TX 75226
  214/421-2169
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 9-5; Sun. and Holidays, 12-5
  Type: General
  Exhibits: Natural History
  Fee: None

  DEGOYLER ESTATE
  8525 Garland Rd.
  Dallas, TX 75218
  214/324-1401
  Open: Tues., 1-3; Wed.-Fri., 10-3
  Type: History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Spanish Colonial Revival Mansion
  Fee: None

  DENTAL MUSEUM
  800 Hall St.
  Dallas, TX 75226
  214/824-6321
  Open: Appointment Only, Mon.-Fri., 10-12 and 2-4
  Type: History/Science
  Exhibits: Science and Early Dental Equipment Materials
  Fee: None

  HALL OF STATE
  Fair Park
  P.O. Box 26038
  Dallas, TX 75226
  214/421-5136
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 9-5; Sun., 1-5
  Type: History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Art, Historic Building and Site
  Fee: None

  INTERNATIONAL MUSEUM OF CULTURES
  7500 West Camp Wisdom Rd.
  Dallas, TX 75236
  214/298-3331
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 10-5; Sun., 2-5
  Type: Science
  Exhibits: Ethnological
  Fee: None

  McCORD THEATRE COLLECTION
  Fondren Library
  Southern Methodist University
  Dallas, TX 75225
  214/692-1002
  Open: Library Hours and By Appointment
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Collection of Material from Cinema, Circus, Opera, Dance,
              Theatre, Vaudeville, Radio, and TV
  Fee: None

  MEADOWS MUSEUM AND GALLERY
  Owen Art Center
  Southern Methodist University
  Dallas, TX 75225
  214/692-2516
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 10-5; Sun., 1-5
  Type: Art
  Exhibits: Art and Spanish Art
  Fee: None

  MEXICAN-AMERICAN CULTURAL HERITAGE CENTER
  Pinkston Annex (Thomas Edison)
  2940 Singleton Blvd.
  Dallas, TX 75212
  214/630-1680
  Open: 8-5 on School Days
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Hispanic Influence in Texas History
  Fee: None

  MUSEUM OF AFRICAN-AMERICAN LIFE AND CULTURE
  3837 Simpson-Stuart Rd.
  Dallas, TX 75241
  214/372-8738
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 12-4 and By Appointment
  Type: General/Art
  Exhibits: Traditional African Sculpture and Ceremonial Objects
  Fee: None

  NATIONAL BROADCAST MUSEUM
  1701 Market St.
  Dallas, TX 75202
  214/748-1112
  Open: Wed.-Fri., 11-4; Sat.-Sun., 11-5
  Type: General
  Exhibits: Personal Microscope Used by Thomas A. Edison; Ornate
              Victrolas; Early TV Sets
  Fee: Adults $2; Children $1

  NATIVE-AMERICAN CULTURAL HERITAGE CENTER
  Sequoyah Environmental Science Academy
  3635 Greenleaf St.
  Dallas, TX 75212
  214/631-3920
  Open: 8-5 on School Days
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Tribal Artifacts Representing the Six Geographical Areas of
              U.S. American Indian Heritage
  Fee: None

  NEIMAN-MARCUS ARCHIVE SHOWCASE
  Fifth Floor
  Main and Ervay Sts.
  Dallas, TX 75201
  214/573-5780
  Open: During Store Hours
  Type: General
  Exhibits: Neiman-Marcus Early History and Personalities
  Fee: None

  OLD CITY PARK
  1717 Gano St.
  Dallas, TX 75215
  214/421-5141
  Open: Tues.-Fri., 10-4; Sat.-Sun., 1:30-4:30
  Type: History/Historic Building/Site
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building and Site
  Fee: Adults $4; Children $2

  SILENT WINGS MUSEUM
  7038 Northaven Rd.
  Dallas, TX 75230
  214/368-6097
  Open: Tues., Thurs., and Sat., 10-5
  Type: General
  Exhibits: World War II Collection
  Fee: None

  SOUTHWEST MUSEUM OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY/THE SCIENCE PLACE
  First and King Ave.
  P.O. Box 11158
  Dallas, TX 75223
  214/428-8351
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 9-5; Sun., 12-5
  Type: Science
  Exhibits: Science and Planetarium
  Fee: Adults $1; Children 50¢


_DECATUR, WISE COUNTY_

  OLD STONE PRISON
  201 Pecan St.
  Decatur, TX 76234
  817/627-3723
  Open: By Appointment Only
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: Donation

  WISE COUNTY HERITAGE MUSEUM
  1602 South Trinity
  Box 427
  Decatur, TX 76234
  817/627-5586
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 9:30-4:30; Sun., 1-4:30
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Art, Archeology, Prehistory,
              Historic Building and Site
  Fee: Adults 50¢; Children 25¢


_DEER PARK, HARRIS COUNTY_

  DEER PARK INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT HISTORICAL SCHOOL MUSEUM
  204 Ivy St.
  Deer Park, TX 77536
  713/479-2831, exts. 135 and 353
  Open: Daily, 8-4
  Type: History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building, and History of
              Deer Park School District
  Fee: None


_DEL RIO, VAL VERDE COUNTY_

  WHITEHEAD MEMORIAL MUSEUM
  1308 South Main St.
  Del Rio, TX 78840
  512/774-3611, ext. 244
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 9-12 and 1-4:30
  Type: General/History/Historic Site
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History and Historic Site
  Fee: Adults $1; Children 25¢


_DENISON, GRAYSON COUNTY_

  GRAYSON COUNTY FRONTIER VILLAGE
  Loy Park on Loy Lake Rd.
  Denison, TX 75020
  214/463-2487
  Open: Sun., 2-5 and By Appointment
  Type: General/History/Historic Site
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Site and Building
  Fee: None


_DENTON, DENTON COUNTY_

  COURTHOUSE-ON-THE-SQUARE HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  Second Floor, Courthouse
  Denton, TX 76201
  817/566-1487
  Open: Mon.-Thurs., 2-5
  Type: History/Historic Site/Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building and Site
  Fee: None

  HISTORICAL COLLECTION
  North Texas State University
  Ave. A and Mulberry St.
  P.O. Box 13438
  Denton, TX 76203
  817/565-2386
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 1-5 and By Appointment
  Type: General
  Exhibits: Ethnographic/Historic
  Fee: None

  STATE MUSEUM OF THE DAUGHTERS OF THE REPUBLIC
  Texas’ First Ladies Historic Costume Collection
  Human Development Building
  Texas Women’s University
  P.O. Box 23975
  Denton, TX 76204
  817/382-8821
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 8-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Gowns Worn by the Wives of the Governors of Texas and the
              Presidents of the Republic of Texas
  Fee: None

  TEXAS WOMEN’S UNIVERSITY ART MUSEUM
  1 Circle Dr.
  Denton, TX 76204
  817/382-8923
  Open: 9-4 on School Days
  Type: Art
  Exhibits: Art
  Fee: None

  TEXAS WOMEN’S UNIVERSITY STATE HISTORICAL COLLECTION: HISTORY OF TEXAS
              WOMEN
  Old Main Building
  Denton, TX 76204
  817/387-1215
  Open: Tues., 9-12; Thurs., 1-4
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: History of Texas Women
  Fee: None


_DICKENS, DICKENS COUNTY_

  DICKENS COUNTY HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  Courthouse
  Dickens, TX 79229
  806/623-5577
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 8-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_DIMMITT, CASTRO COUNTY_

  CASTRO COUNTY HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  404 West Halsell St.
  Dimmitt, TX 79027
  806/647-2611
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 1-5; Sat.-Sun., By Appointment
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_DONNA, HIDALGO COUNTY_

  DONNA HOOKS FLETCHER MUSEUM, INC.
  129 South Eighth St.
  P.O. Box 1175
  Donna, TX 78537
  No Telephone
  Open: Wed. and Fri., 2:30-4:30
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_DUBLIN, ERATH COUNTY_

  LYON MUSEUM
  118 East Blackjack
  Dublin, TX 76446
  817/445-2582
  Open: Sat., 2-4
  Type: General/History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building and Site
  Fee: Donation

  MILLER GRIST MILL-WRIGHT MEMORIAL PARK
  118 East Blackjack
  Dublin, TX 76446
  817/445-2582
  Open: Mon.-Wed., 8-3
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: Donation


_DUMAS, MOORE COUNTY_

  MOORE COUNTY HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  Lew Haile Annex
  Dumas Ave. and East Eighth
  Box 851
  Dumas, TX 79029
  806/935-3113
  Open: Winter, Mon.-Fri., 1-4:30; Summer, Tues.-Sat., 10-5 and Sun.,
              2-5.
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Natural History, Archeology, and
              Prehistory
  Fee: None

  TUMBLEWEED GALLERY AND MUSEUM
  Highway 87/287
  Box 1225
  Dumas, TX 79029
  No Telephone
  Open: Daily, June-August, Mon.-Sat., 10-8 and Sun., 1-5
  Type: History/Art
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Art, and Geological History
  Fee: None


_EAGLE PASS, MAVERICK COUNTY_

  FORT DUNCAN MUSEUM
  Fort Duncan Park
  P.O. Box 848
  Eagle Pass, TX 78852
  512/773-6057
  Open: Weekends, September-May, 2-5; Daily, June-August, 1-5 (except
              Sun.)
  Type: Historic Site/Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: $1 Donation


_EDGEWOOD, VAN ZANDT COUNTY_

  EDGEWOOD HERITAGE CENTER
  North Main
  Edgewood, TX 75117
  214/896-4253
  Open: First and Third Sats. of the Month and By Appointment
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Historic Buildings
  Fee: Donation


_EDINBURG, HIDALGO COUNTY_

  HIDALGO COUNTY HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  121 East McIntyre
  P.O. Box 482
  Edinburg, TX 78539
  512/383-6911
  Open: Tues.-Fri., 9-5; Sun., 1-5
  Type: History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Archeology, Prehistory, Historic
              Building and Site
  Fee: Donation


_EDNA, JACKSON COUNTY_

  TEXANA MUSEUM AND LIBRARY ASSOCIATION
  403 North Wells St.
  P.O. Box 401
  Edna, TX 77957
  512/782-5431
  Open: Tues.-Fri., 1-5; Sat., 8-12
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: Donation


_EGYPT, WHARTON COUNTY_

  EGYPT PLANTATION
  Egypt, TX 77436
  409/677-3562
  Open: Weekdays, 8-12 and 2-4 By Reservation
  Type: Historic Buildings
  Exhibits: Collections of Early Life in Texas
  Fee: $5

  NORTHINGTON-HEARD MUSEUM
  Box 277
  Egypt, TX 77436
  409/677-3562
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 8-5; Sat., 8-12
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Natural History, Archeology,
              Prehistory, and Mineralogy
  Fee: None


_EL CAMPO, WHARTON COUNTY_

  EL CAMPO MUSEUM OF ART, HISTORY, AND NATURAL SCIENCE
  201 East Jackson St.
  El Campo, TX 77437
  409/543-2713
  Open: Weekdays, 9-5; Sat.-Sun., 1-5
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, World Record Animal Trophies
  Fee: None


_ELDORADO, SCHLEICHER COUNTY_

  SCHLEICHER COUNTY MUSEUM
  Menard Highway and U.S. 277
  P.O. Box 473
  Eldorado, TX 76936
  915/853-2709
  Open: Mon.-Thurs., 2-4:30
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_EL PASO, EL PASO COUNTY_

  BULLFIGHT MUSEUM
  Del Camino Restaurant
  5001 Alameda
  El Paso, TX 79905
  915/772-2711
  Open: Daily When Restaurant Is Open
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Bullfighting
  Fee: None

  CHAMIZAL NATIONAL MEMORIAL
  800 South San Marcial
  P.O. Box 722
  El Paso, TX 79944
  915/541-7780
  Open: Daily, 9-5
  Type: General/History/Art
  Exhibits: History and Art
  Fee: None

  CHURCH HERITAGE CENTER
  Trinity United Methodist Church
  Corner of Mesa and Yandell
  El Paso, TX 79922
  915/532-2674
  Open: Tours on Request
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: History of Trinity United Methodist Church
  Fee: Call for Admission Charge

  EL PASO CENTENNIAL MUSEUM
  University and Wiggins Ave.
  University of Texas at El Paso
  El Paso, TX 79968
  915/747-5565
  Open: Tues.-Fri., 10-4:30; Sun., 1:30-5:30
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local History, Natural History, Archeology, Prehistory, and
              Mineralogy
  Fee: None

  EL PASO MUSEUM OF ART
  1211 Montana
  El Paso, TX 79902
  915/541-4043
  Open: Wed., Sat., 10-5
  Type: Art
  Exhibits: Art
  Fee: None

  EL PASO MUSEUM OF HISTORY
  12901 Gateway West
  El Paso, TX 79927
  915/858-1928
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 9-5; Sun., 1-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None

  INSIGHTS—EL PASO SCIENCE CENTER
  303 North Oregon
  El Paso, TX 79901
  915/542-2990
  Open: Tues.-Fri., 1-5; Sat., 10-5
  Type: Science
  Exhibits: Science, Botany, Mineralogy
  Fee: None

  TIGUA INDIAN MUSEUM
  119 South Old Pueblo Rd.
  El Paso, TX 79917
  915/859-7913
  Open: Tues.-Sun., 10-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local, Pioneer, and Indian History
  Fee: None

  WILDERNESS PARK MUSEUM
  2000 Trans Mountain Rd.
  El Paso, TX 79924
  915/755-4332
  Open: Tues.-Sun., 9-5
  Type: Science
  Exhibits: Archeology and Prehistory
  Fee: None

  YSLETA DEL SUR PUEBLO MUSEUM
  119 South Old Pueblo Rd.
  El Paso, TX 79917
  915/859-3916
  Open: Daily, 9-5, April through October; 8:30-5:30, November through
              March
  Type: Historic Building/Site
  Exhibits: Tigua Indian Tribe of Texas
  Fee: None


_EOLA, CONCHO COUNTY_

  THE EARNEST AND DOROTHY BARROW FOUNDATION MUSEUM
  19 Miles East of San Angelo on S.H. 765
  P.O. Box 607
  Eola, TX 76937
  915/469-3788
  Open: Reservation Only
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History and Mineralogy
  Fee: None


_FAIRFIELD, FREESTONE COUNTY_

  FREESTONE COUNTY HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  302 East Main
  P.O. Box 524
  Fairfield, TX 75840
  214/389-3738
  Open: Wed., 10-4; Sat., 10-4; Sun., 1:30-4
  Type: General/History/Historic Site/Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building and Site
  Fee: Adults 50¢; Children under 12 25¢

  MOODY-BRADLEY HOUSE
  318 Moody
  Box 76
  Fairfield, TX 75840
  No Telephone
  Open: Sun., 1-5; Other Days By Appointment
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Historic Building
  Fee: Adults 50¢; Students 25¢


_FALFURRIAS, BROOKS COUNTY_

  HERITAGE MUSEUM
  St. Mary’s Highway, Exit 281
  P.O. Box 86
  Falfurrias, TX 78355
  512/325-2907
  Open: Tues.-Fri., 11-5; Sat., 1-5
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_FLOYDADA, FLOYD COUNTY_

  FLOYD COUNTY HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  105 East Missouri
  Box 304
  Floydada, TX 79235
  806/983-2415
  Open: Weekdays, 1-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_FORT BLISS, EL PASO COUNTY_

  FORT BLISS REPLICA MUSEUM
  Corner of Pershing and Pleasanton Rds.
  Fort Bliss, TX 79916
  915/568-2804 or 4518
  Open: Mon.-Sun., 9-4:30
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None

  MUSEUM OF THE NONCOMMISSIONED OFFICER
  Building 11331
  ATSS-S-M USASMA
  Fort Bliss, TX 79918
  915/568-8609
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 9-4; Sat.-Sun., 12-4
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Military History
  Fee: None

  THIRD U.S. CAVALRY REGIMENTAL MUSEUM
  Building 2407, Headquarters
  Third Armored Cavalry Regiment
  Fort Bliss, TX 79916
  915/568-7783 or 1922
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 7:30-4:30; Sat.-Sun., 12-4
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: History of the Regiment
  Fee: None

  U.S. ARMY AIR DEFENSE ARTILLERY MUSEUM
  Building 5000, Pleasanton Rd.
  ATTN: ATZC-DPTP-AMU
  Fort Bliss, TX 79916
  915/568-5412
  Open: Daily, 9-4:30
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Military History
  Fee: None


_FORT DAVIS, JEFF DAVIS COUNTY_

  FORT DAVIS NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE
  S.H. 17
  P.O. Box 1456
  Fort Davis, TX 79734
  915/426-3225
  Open: Daily, 8-5; June-August, 8-6
  Type: History/Historic Building/Site
  Exhibits: Historic Building and Site
  Fee: 50¢ per person or $1 per car

  NEILL MUSEUM
  7 Blocks West of the Courthouse
  Box 801
  Fort Davis, TX 79734
  915/426-3969
  Open: June 1-Sept. 7, 10-5; Otherwise By Appointment
  Type: General
  Exhibits: Antique Dolls and Toys
  Fee: Adults $1; Children 50¢

  OVERLAND TRAIL MUSEUM
  On the Old Overland Trail
  Box 1459
  Fort Davis, TX 79734
  915/426-3999
  Open: June 1-Sept. 15, 1-5, Wed.-Sun.; and By Appointment
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: Donation


_FORT HOOD, BELL COUNTY_

  FIRST CAVALRY MUSEUM
  2218 Headquarters Ave.
  Fort Hood, TX 76545
  817/685-7415
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 9-4:30; Sat.-Sun., 12-4
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: History Related to the First Cavalry Division
  Fee: None

  SECOND ARMORED DIVISION MUSEUM
  Battalion Ave. at 27th St.
  P.O. Box 5009
  Fort Hood, TX 76544
  817/287-3570 or 8811
  Open: Daily, 9-4:30
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Military History
  Fee: None


_FORT SAM HOUSTON, BEXAR COUNTY_

  FORT SAM HOUSTON MUSEUM
  Building 123
  Fort Sam Houston, TX 78234
  512/221-6117
  Open: Wed.-Sun., 10-4
  Type: History/Historic Site
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building and Site,
              Military History
  Fee: None

  U.S. ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM
  Building 2264, Stanley Rd.
  Academy of Health Sciences
  Fort Sam Houston, TX 78208
  512/221-2358
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 8-4
  Type: History/Science
  Exhibits: Army Medical History
  Fee: None


_FORT STOCKTON, PECOS COUNTY_

  ANNIE RIGGS MEMORIAL MUSEUM
  301 South Main
  Fort Stockton, TX 79735
  915/336-2167 or 7106
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 10-12, 1-5; Sun., 1:30-5
  Type: History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Archeology, Historic Site and
              Building, Mineralogy, and Dress Collection
  Fee: Adults 50¢; Children 25¢


_FORT WORTH, TARRANT COUNTY_

  AMON CARTER MUSEUM
  3501 Camp Bowie Blvd.
  P.O. Box 2365
  Fort Worth, TX 76107
  817/738-1933
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 10-5; Sun., 1-5:30
  Type: Art
  Exhibits: Art
  Fee: None

  BROWN-LUPTON GALLERY
  Student Center
  Texas Christian University
  Fort Worth, TX 76129
  817/921-7926
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 11-4; Sat.-Sun., 1-4
  Type: Art/History
  Exhibits: Art, Student Works, Traveling Shows
  Fee: None

  CATTLEMAN’S MUSEUM
  Texas and Southwestern Cattle Raisers Foundation
  1301 West Seventh
  Fort Worth, TX 76102
  817/332-7064
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 8-5
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None

  CHARLES D. TANDY ARCHEOLOGICAL MUSEUM
  2001 Broadus, A. Webb Roberts Library
  Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary
  P.O. Box 22417
  Fort Worth, TX 76122
  817/923-1921
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 8-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Study of Early Biblical Periods and Artifacts from
              Southwestern’s Continuing Archeological Expeditions at Tel
              Batash Timnah, Israel
  Fee: None

  EDDLEMAN-McFARLAND HOUSE
  1110 Penn St.
  Fort Worth, TX 76102
  817/332-5875
  Open: Tues. and Thurs., 10-2; Sun., 2-5; or By Appointment
  Type: General/History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Historic Building
  Fee: $2

  FORT WORTH ART MUSEUM
  1309 Montgomery
  Fort Worth, TX 76107
  817/738-9215
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 10-5; Sun., 1-5
  Type: Art
  Exhibits: 20th-Century Art
  Fee: None

  FORT WORTH INTERPRETIVE CENTER
  Fire Station No. 1
  Second and Commerce Sts.
  Fort Worth, TX 76102
  817/732-1631
  Open: Daily, 10-5
  Type: General/History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None

  FORT WORTH MUSEUM OF SCIENCE AND HISTORY
  1501 Montgomery St.
  Fort Worth, TX 76107
  817/732-1631
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 9-5; Sun., 2-5
  Type: History/Science
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Science, Natural History,
              Archeology, Prehistory, Botany, Planetarium, Mineralogy,
              and the Omni Theater
  Fee: None

  KIMBELL ART MUSEUM
  1101 Will Rogers Rd. West
  P.O. Box 9440
  Fort Worth, TX 76107
  817/332-8451
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 10-5; Sun., 1-5
  Type: Art
  Exhibits: Art
  Fee: None

  LOG CABIN VILLAGE HISTORICAL COMPLEX
  2222 West Rosedale
  Fort Worth, TX 76109
  817/926-5881
  Open: Daily, 8-4:30; Sat., 12-4:30; Sun., 1-4:30
  Type: Historic Site
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: Adults 60¢; Children 35¢

  PATE MUSEUM OF TRANSPORTATION
  U.S. 377 between Fort Worth and Cresson
  P.O. Box 711
  Fort Worth, TX 76101
  817/396-4305
  Open: Daily, 9-5, except Mon.
  Type: General
  Exhibits: Transportation
  Fee: None

  SID RICHARDSON COLLECTION OF WESTERN ART
  309 Main St.
  Fort Worth, TX 76102
  817/332-6554
  Open: Tues.-Fri., 10-5; Sat., 11-6; Sun., 1-5
  Type: Art
  Exhibits: Art
  Fee: None

  SOUTHWEST AEROSPACE MUSEUM
  300 North Spur 341
  P.O. Box 5462
  Fort Worth, TX 76116
  817/244-1067
  Open: Wed., Sat., Sun., 10-3
  Type: General
  Exhibits: Aircraft
  Fee: None

  SPECIAL COLLECTIONS, HEALTH SCIENCES LIBRARY
  Seventh Floor, Medical Education Building 1
  Texas College of Osteopathic Medicine
  Camp Bowie at Montgomery
  Fort Worth, TX 76107
  817/735-2593
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 8-5
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: History of Osteopathic Medicine
  Fee: None

  TEXAS RAILROAD MUSEUM
  Quartermaster Depot
  Fort Worth Federal Center
  5051 James St.
  Fort Worth, TX 76100
  817/261-2480
  Open: Sat.-Sun., 1-5
  Type: Historic Site
  Exhibits: Locomotive No. 610
  Fee: None

  THE WESTERN COMPANY MUSEUM
  6100 Western Place
  Fort Worth, TX 76107
  817/731-5261 or 5217
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 8:30-4:30
  Type: History/Science
  Exhibits: Petroleum Industry
  Fee: None

  THISTLE HILL
  1509 Pennsylvania
  Fort Worth, TX 76104
  817/336-1212
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 10-3:15; Sun., 1-4:30
  Type: History/Historic Building/General
  Exhibits: History, Historic Building
  Fee: Adults $1.50; Children 50¢


_FRANKSTON, ANDERSON COUNTY_

  FRANKSTON DEPOT LIBRARY AND MUSEUM
  101 Reagan St.
  Box 421
  Frankston, TX 75763
  214/876-4484
  Open: By Appointment
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_FREDERICKSBURG, GILLESPIE COUNTY_

  PIONEER MEMORIAL MUSEUM
  309 West Main St.
  P.O. Box 765
  Fredericksburg, TX 78624
  512/997-2835
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 10-5; Sun., 1-5; Closed During Winter
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: Adults $1; Children 25¢

  SCHANDUA HOUSE
  111 East Austin St.
  Fredericksburg, TX 78624
  512/997-2835
  Open: By Appointment
  Type: History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Historic Building, German Primitive and Mid-Victorian
              Furniture
  Fee: None


_FRIENDSWOOD, GALVESTON COUNTY_

  J. BROWN HERITAGE FOUNDATION
  108 Skyview
  Friendswood, TX 77546
  409/482-7358
  Open: June-September, Sat.-Sun., 2-5
  Type: History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building
  Fee: None


_FRITCH, HUTCHINSON COUNTY_

  LAKE MEREDITH AQUATIC AND WILDLIFE MUSEUM
  104 North Robey
  P.O. Box 981
  Fritch, TX 79036
  806/857-2458
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 10-5; Sun., 2-5
  Type: Aquatic and Wildlife
  Exhibits: Natural History
  Fee: None


_GAIL, BORDEN COUNTY_

  BORDEN COUNTY MUSEUM
  F.M. 669
  P.O. Box 23
  Gail, TX 79738
  915/856-4602
  Open: By Appointment
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_GAINESVILLE, COOKE COUNTY_

  MORTON MUSEUM OF COOKE COUNTY
  210 South Dixon St.
  P.O. Box 150
  Gainesville, TX 76240
  817/668-8900
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 12-5; Sun., 2-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building
  Fee: None


_GALVESTON, GALVESTON COUNTY_

  AMERICAN NATIONAL INSURANCE TOWER
  19th and Market Sts.
  Galveston, TX 77553
  409/763-4661, ext. 216
  Open: Mon.-Fri.
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Pictorial History of Galveston
  Fee: None

  ANTIQUE DOLL MUSEUM
  1721 Broadway
  Galveston, TX 77550
  409/762-7289
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 10-6; Sun., 1-6
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Dolls
  Fee: Adults $3; Children $2

  ASHTON VILLA
  2328 Broadway
  Galveston, TX 77553
  409/762-3933
  Open: Daily, 10-4; Weekends, 12-5
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Italianate-Style Historic House
  Fee: Adults $3; Students $2.50

  BISHOP’S PALACE
  1402 Broadway
  Galveston, TX 77550
  409/762-2475
  Open: Winter, Mon., Wed.-Sat., 1-5, Sun., 12-5; Summer, Mon.-Sat.,
              10-5, Sun., 12-5
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Victorian Mansion
  Fee: Adults $2.50; Students $1.50; Children 50¢

  CENTER FOR TRANSPORTATION AND COMMERCE
  123 Rosenberg
  Galveston, TX 77550
  409/765-5700
  Open: Daily, 10-6
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Transportation Center
  Fee: Adults $4; Senior Citizens $3; Children $2

  ELISSA
  Pier 22
  Galveston, TX 77553
  409/763-0027
  Open: Wed.-Mon., 10-6
  Type: Historic Site
  Exhibits: Sailing Ship
  Fee: Adults $3; Senior Citizens $2; Children $2.50

  GALVESTON ARTS CENTER GALLERY
  2127 Strand
  Galveston, TX 77550
  409/763-2403
  Open: Wed.-Sat., and Mon., 10-5; Sun., 1-5
  Type: Historic Building/Art
  Exhibits: Local, Regional, and Nationally Known Artists
  Fee: None

  GALVESTON COUNTY HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  2219 Market St.
  Galveston, TX 77553
  409/766-2340
  Open: Wed.-Sat., 10-5; Sun., 12-5
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: History of Galveston
  Fee: None

  KARANKAWA INDIAN MUSEUM
  Bob Smith Dr.
  Route 1, Box 178
  Galveston, TX 77550
  409/744-5732
  Open: Mon.-Sun., 24 Hours
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Archeology
  Fee: None

  ROSENBERG LIBRARY
  2310 Sealy
  Galveston, TX 77550
  409/763-8854
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 9-5
  Type: General/History/Art
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History and Art
  Fee: None

  SAMUEL MAY WILLIAMS HOME
  3601 Bernardo de Galvez (Ave. P)
  P.O. Drawer 539
  Galveston, TX 77553
  409/765-7834
  Open: Call for Hours
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History and Historic Building
  Fee: Adults $2.50; Students $2

  SYNDOR POWHATAN HOUSE
  3427 Ave. O
  Galveston, TX 77550
  409/763-0077
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 1-5
  Type: Historic Site and Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History and Historic Building/Site
  Fee: Adults $1.25; Students 50¢

  TRUBE HOUSE
  1627 Sealy Ave.
  Galveston, TX 77550
  409/763-5205
  Open: By Appointment
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Danish Castle
  Fee: $2.50


_GARLAND, DALLAS COUNTY_

  LANDMARK MUSEUM
  920 West Ave. D
  Garland, TX 75040
  No Telephone
  Open: Sun., 3-5:30 and By Appointment
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History; 1900 Santa Fe Depot; Farming and
              Agricultural Items
  Fee: None


_GEORGETOWN, WILLIAMSON COUNTY_

  MOOD HERITAGE MUSEUM
  Southwestern University
  East University Ave.
  Georgetown, TX 78626
  512/863-1997
  Open: Tues. and Thurs. Afternoons and Fri. Morning
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Early Indian Material and Material on the University
  Fee: None


_GEORGE WEST, LIVE OAK COUNTY_

  ARMONTROUT MUSEUM
  Highway 281 South
  P.O. Drawer F
  George West, TX 78022
  512/449-1556
  Open: Tues., 8-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Science and Natural History
  Fee: Adults $1

  CACTUS PARK AND MUSEUM
  U.S. 281 (1 Mile South of George West)
  George West, TX 78022
  512/449-1448
  Open: Mon.-Tues., 9-12; Other Times By Appointment
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: Adults $1.50; Children 25¢

  LIVE OAK COUNTY MUSEUM
  Courthouse
  Box 572
  George West, TX 78022
  512/449-2161
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 8-5:30
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_GIDDINGS, LEE COUNTY_

  LEE COUNTY MUSEUM
  190 East Industry
  P.O. Box 93
  Giddings, TX 78942
  409/542-4438
  Open: Tues., Thurs., Sat., 1:30-5:30
  Type: General
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building and Site
  Fee: None


_GLEN ROSE, SOMERVELL COUNTY_

  SOMERVELL COUNTY MUSEUM
  Elm and Vernon Sts.
  Box 669
  Glen Rose, TX 76043
  817/897-2739 or 4529
  Open: Labor Day-June, Sat., 10-5; Sun., 1-5; June-Labor Day, Sun.,
              1-5; Mon.-Sat., 10-5; and By Appointment
  Type: General
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Natural History, Archeology, and
              Fossils
  Fee: None


_GOLDTHWAITE, MILLS COUNTY_

  MILLS COUNTY HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  Third and Fisher Sts.
  Goldthwaite, TX 76844
  No Telephone
  Open: Mon., Wed., Fri., Sat., 1-5
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: Donation


_GOLIAD, GOLIAD COUNTY_

  OLD MARKET HOUSE MUSEUM
  Corner of Franklin and Market Sts.
  P.O. Box 606
  Goliad, TX 77963
  512/645-3563
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 10-12 and 1-4
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building and Site
  Fee: None

  PRESIDIO LA BAHIA MUSEUM
  2 Miles South of Goliad on U.S. 183/77A
  Goliad, TX 77963
  512/645-3752
  Open: Daily, 9-5
  Type: Historic Site
  Exhibits: Church; Artifacts from Civilizations Who Camped on the Site
  Fee: Adults $1; Children 25¢


_GONZALES, GONZALES COUNTY_

  EGGLESTON HOUSE
  St. Louis St.
  Gonzales, TX 78629
  No Telephone
  Open: Thurs.-Sat., 12-4
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Log House
  Fee: None

  GONZALES MEMORIAL MUSEUM
  St. Louis and St. Lawrence Sts.
  Box 768
  Gonzales, TX 78629
  512/672-6350
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 10-12, 1-5; Sun., 1-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: Donation

  OLD JAIL MUSEUM
  414 St. Lawrence St.
  Gonzales, TX 78629
  512/672-6532
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 9-5; Sat., 9-4; Sun., 12-4
  Type: Historic Site/Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building and Site, Law
              and Order
  Fee: Donation


_GRANBURY, HOOD COUNTY_

  HOOD COUNTY MUSEUM
  115 North Houston
  Granbury, TX 76048
  817/443-3781 or 573-9921
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 11-5
  Type: History/Art
  Exhibits: History and Art
  Fee: None

  MUSEUM OF TIME
  211 West Pearl
  Granbury, TX 76048
  817/573-1556
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 10-5
  Type: General
  Exhibits: 300 Clocks from Germany, England, France, Holland,
              Switzerland, and the U.S.
  Fee: Adults $1.50; Children 50¢

  TEXAS AMERICAN INDIAN MUSEUM
  213 North Crockett
  Granbury, TX 76048
  817/573-8341
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 9-5
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: More than 5,000 Artifacts About the Indian
  Fee: Donation


_GRAND PRAIRIE, DALLAS COUNTY_

  DR. H. V. COPELAND HISTORIC HOME
  125 S.W. Dallas
  Grand Prairie, TX 75051
  214/264-1571
  Open: By Appointment and on Special Occasions
  Type: Historic House
  Exhibits: Memorabilia of the Doctor who Served the City for More Than
              50 Years
  Fee: None

  JORDAN-BOWLES HOME
  705 N.E. 28th St.
  Box 11
  Grand Prairie, TX 75050
  214/263-5221, ext. 346
  Open: By Appointment
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: House
  Fee: None

  TEXAS SPORTS HALL OF FAME
  401 East Safari Parkway
  Grand Prairie, TX 75050
  214/263-4255
  Open: Memorial Day-Labor Day, 10-7; Rest of the Year Tues.-Fri., 10-5;
              Sat.-Sun., 10-6
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Sports Memorabilia
  Fee: Adults $3; Children $1.50


_GRAND SALINE, VANZANDT COUNTY_

  GRAND SALINE PUBLIC LIBRARY AND MUSEUM
  201 East Pacific
  Grand Saline, TX 75140
  214/962-5516
  Open: Tues.-Fri., 9-5; Sat., 9-12
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Antique Furniture and a Porcelain Doll Collection
  Fee: None


_GRANDVIEW, JOHNSON COUNTY_

  SWAIN’S MUSEUM
  203 Bois d’Arc
  Grandview, TX 76050
  No Telephone
  Open: Sat.-Sun., 9-5, Summer
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Indian Artifacts and Early
              Household Tools
  Fee: None


_GRAPEVINE, TARRANT COUNTY_

  GRAPEVINE HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  231 South Ball St.
  Grapevine, TX 76051
  817/488-8521
  Open: Sat.-Sun., 1-5
  Type: General/Historic Site and Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building and Site
  Fee: None


_GREENVILLE, HUNT COUNTY_

  AUDIE MURPHY ROOM
  W. Walworth Harrison Public Library
  3716 Lee St.
  Greenville, TX 75401
  214/455-2205
  Open: Mon., 10-8; Tues.-Thurs., 9-8; Fri., 9-5; Sat., 9-4
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Audie Murphy Mementos
  Fee: None

  ENDE-GAILLARD HOUSE
  Graham Park
  Box 448
  Greenville, TX 75401
  214/455-4840
  Open: Sun., 2-5, June-September
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History and Historic Building
  Fee: Donation


_GROESBECK, LIMESTONE COUNTY_

  LIMESTONE COUNTY HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  210 West Navasota
  Groesbeck, TX 76642
  817/729-5064
  Open: Mon., 8-5; Wed.-Thurs., 8-12; Fri., 1-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: Adults 50¢; Children 25¢


_HAMILTON, HAMILTON COUNTY_

  HAMILTON COUNTY MUSEUM
  Hamilton County Courthouse
  On the Square
  Hamilton, TX 76531
  No Telephone
  Open: Weekdays, 8-5
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_HARLINGEN, CAMERON COUNTY_

  CONFEDERATE AIR FORCE FLYING MUSEUM
  Rebel Field, Valley International Airport
  P.O. Box CAF
  Harlingen, TX 78550
  512/425-1057
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 9-5; Sun. and Holidays, 1-6
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Military Aviation from World War II
  Fee: Adults $3; Students $1.50

  HARLINGEN HOSPITAL MUSEUM
  c/o Rio Grande Valley Museum
  Industrial Air Park
  Boxwood St.
  Harlingen, TX 78550
  512/423-3979
  Open: Tues.-Fri., 9-12, 2-5; Sun., 2-5
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Historic Building
  Fee: None

  LON C. HILL HOME
  c/o Rio Grande Valley Museum
  Industrial Air Park
  Boxwood St.
  Harlingen, TX 78550
  512/423-3979
  Open: Wed., 10-12, 2-5; Thurs., 2-5
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None

  RIO GRANDE VALLEY MUSEUM
  Industrial Air Park
  Boxwood St.
  Harlingen, TX 78550
  512/423-3979
  Open: Tues.-Fri., 9-12, 2-5; Sun., 2-5
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History and Natural History
  Fee: Donation


_HASKELL, HASKELL COUNTY_

  HASKELL COUNTY RAILROAD MUSEUM
  Sixth and Ave. C
  413 South First St.
  Haskell, TX 79521
  No Telephone
  Open: Mon. and Thurs., 10-4
  Type: History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Depot
  Fee: Donation

  J.U. AND FLORENCE B. FIELDS MUSEUM OF FINE LIVING
  401 North Ave. E
  P.O. Box 694
  Haskell, TX 79521
  817/864-3898
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 2-5; and By Appointment
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Glass Collection, China, Furniture, and Oriental Rugs
  Fee: None


_HELENA, KARNES COUNTY_

  KARNES COUNTY MUSEUM
  Courthouse Square
  Helena, TX 78118
  512/780-2868
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 8-5; Sun., 1-5
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local Memorabilia
  Fee: None


_HENDERSON, RUSK COUNTY_

  DEPOT MUSEUM AND CHILDREN’S DISCOVERY CENTER
  514 North High St.
  Henderson, TX 75652
  214/836-2624
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 9-5; Sat., 9-1
  Type: General/History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None

  HOWARD-DICKINSON HOUSE
  501 South Main St.
  Henderson, TX 75652
  214/657-6925
  Open: Sun., 1-5; and By Appointment
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: 1855 House With Period Furniture
  Fee: Adults $1; Students 50¢


_HEREFORD, DEAF SMITH COUNTY_

  DEAF SMITH COUNTY HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  400 Sampson St.
  Hereford, TX 79045
  806/364-4338
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 10-5; Sun., 2-5
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History of Deaf Smith County
  Fee: None

  E. B. BLACK HISTORICAL HOUSE
  508 West Third St.
  Hereford, TX 79045
  806/364-4338
  Open: By Appointment
  Type: Historic House
  Exhibits: Historic House
  Fee: None

  NATIONAL COWGIRL HALL OF FAME AND HERITAGE CENTER
  Pittman House
  Hereford, TX 79045
  806/364-5252
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 9-5:30
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Memorabilia of Prize-Winning
              Cowgirls
  Fee: $2


_HILLSBORO, HILL COUNTY_

  CONFEDERATE RESEARCH CENTER AND AUDIE L. MURPHY GUN MUSEUM
  Hill Junior College
  P.O. Box 619
  Hillsboro, TX 76645
  817/582-2555
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 8-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Military History
  Fee: None

  HILL COUNTY HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  Courthouse
  P.O. Box 414
  Hillsboro, TX 76645
  No Telephone
  Open: Mon.-Sun., 8-5
  Type: History/Collection
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Archeology, and Indian Artifacts
  Fee: None


_HONDO, MEDINA COUNTY_

  MEDINA COUNTY MUSEUM
  2202 18th St.
  Hondo, TX 78861
  512/426-2271
  Open: Memorial Day to Labor Day, Weekdays, 10-5; Sun., 2-6
  Type: Historic Site/General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: Adults $1; No Charge for Children Under 6


_HONEY GROVE, FANNIN COUNTY_

  R. F. VOYER REGIONAL MUSEUM
  Downtown Square, U.S. 82
  Honey Grove, TX 75446
  214/378-7171
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 1:30-4; Wed., 10-12, 1-3:30; Sun., 1:30-4
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History of Fannin, Lamar, Delta, and Red
              River Counties
  Fee: None


_HOUSTON, HARRIS COUNTY_

  ART LEAGUE OF HOUSTON GALLERY
  1953 Montrose Blvd.
  Houston, TX 77006
  713/523-9530
  Open: Tues.-Fri., 10-4; Sat., 12-4
  Type: Art
  Exhibits: Art
  Fee: None

  BAYOU BEND COLLECTION
  1 Westcott St.
  P.O. Box 13157
  Houston, TX 77019
  713/529-8773
  Open: By Reservation, Tues.-Sat.
  Type: Art/Historic Site
  Exhibits: Art, Historic Building and Site
  Fee: None

  CONTEMPORARY ARTS MUSEUM
  5216 Montrose Blvd.
  Houston, TX 77006
  713/526-3129
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 10-5; Sun., 12-6
  Type: Art
  Exhibits: Art
  Fee: None

  EDITH L. MOORE NATURE SANCTUARY
  440 Wilchester
  Houston, TX 77079
  713/932-1392
  Open: Dawn to Dusk, Daily
  Type: General
  Exhibits: 18 Acres of Nature Trails, Native Flora and Fauna
  Fee: None

  HARRIS COUNTY HERITAGE SOCIETY
  Sam Houston Park
  1100 Bagby
  Houston, TX 77002
  713/223-8367
  Open: Tues.-Fri., 10-4; Sat., 11-3; Sun., 2-5
  Type: Historic Buildings/History
  Exhibits: Kellum-Noble House; Nichols-Rice-Cherry House; Pillot House;
              San Felipe Cottage; The Old Place; St. John Church;
              Bandstand
  Fee: Nominal Admission Charge

  HOUSTON CENTER FOR PHOTOGRAPHY
  1440 Harold
  Houston, TX 77006
  713/663-6373
  Open: Sat.-Sun., 12-5
  Type: General
  Exhibits: Variety of Photographic Exhibitions
  Fee: None

  HOUSTON MUSEUM OF NATURAL SCIENCE
  1 Hermann Circle Dr.
  Houston, TX 77030
  713/526-4273
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 9-5; Sun.-Mon., 12-5; Fri., 7:30-9p.m.
  Type: Science
  Exhibits: 70-foot Long Skeleton of a Diplodocus; Indian Material;
              Coastal Habitats; Events of Texas from 1543-1907;
              Artifacts from Space Missions; History of Chemistry
  Fee: None

  HOUSTON POLICE DEPARTMENT MUSEUM
  17000 Aldine-Westfield Rd.
  Houston, TX 77073
  713/230-2300, ext. 361
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 8-4
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Police History
  Fee: None

  MIDTOWN ART CENTER
  1419 Holman
  Houston, TX 77004
  713/521-3097
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 9-5
  Type: Art
  Exhibits: Art
  Fee: None

  MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ARCHITECTURE AND DECORATIVE ARTS
  Houston Baptist University
  7502 Fondren Rd.
  Houston, TX 77047
  713/774-7661
  Open: Tues.-Thurs., 10-4
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, African and Decorative Arts
  Fee: None

  MUSEUM OF MEDICAL SCIENCE
  Second Floor, Museum of Natural Science
  5800 Caroline
  Houston, TX 77030
  713/529-3766
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 9-4:45; Sun.-Mon., 12-4:45
  Type: General/Science
  Exhibits: Explains in English and Spanish Various Phases of Life
              Functions
  Fee: None

  MUSEUM OF PRINTING HISTORY
  1324 West Clay
  Houston, TX 77019
  713/522-4652
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 10-4
  Type: History/General
  Exhibits: Showcase for the History of Printing
  Fee: None

  NASA/JOHNSON SPACE CENTER
  Olin E. Teague Visitor Center and Auditorium
  Public Services Branch—AP4
  Houston, TX 77058
  713/483-4241 or 4321
  Open: Daily except Christmas, 9-4
  Type: General
  Exhibits: Space Science
  Fee: None

  O’KANE GALLERY
  University of Houston Downtown Campus
  1 Main St.
  Houston, TX 77002
  713/749-1950
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 10-5
  Type: Art
  Exhibits: Showplace for Young and Little-Known Artists
  Fee: None

  PIONEER MEMORIAL LOG HOUSE MUSEUM
  1510 Outer Belt Dr.
  Houston, TX 77025
  713/528-9344 or 665-4473
  Open: First Thursday of Each Month, 1-4
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Furniture, Artifacts, Letters, Paintings, and Other Items
              Relating to Pioneer Texas
  Fee: None

  RICE MUSEUM
  University Blvd. and Stockton St.
  Houston, TX 77005
  713/522-0886
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 10-5; Sun., 12-6
  Type: Art
  Exhibits: Temporary Art Exhibitions from the Menil Foundation
              Collection, Traveling Exhibitions
  Fee: None

  ROBERT A. VINES ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE CENTER
  Spring Branch Independent School District
  8856 Westview Dr.
  Houston, TX 77055
  713/465-9628
  Open: Weekdays, 8:30-5
  Type: Science
  Exhibits: Native Wildlife, Geology, Oceanography, and Exotic Wildlife;
              Arboretum
  Fee: None

  ROTHKO CHAPEL
  St. Thomas University
  1401 Sul Ross at Yupon
  Houston, TX 77006
  713/524-9839
  Open: Daily, 10-6
  Type: Art
  Exhibits: Chapel Contains 14 Paintings by Mark Rothko
  Fee: None

  SARAH CAMPBELL BLAFFER GALLERY
  4800 Calhoun, 114 Fine Arts Building
  Houston, TX 77004
  713/749-1329
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 10-6; Sun., 1-6
  Type: Art
  Exhibits: Art
  Fee: None

  SEWALL ART GALLERY
  Sewall Hall, Entrance 2
  6100 South Main
  Houston, TX 77251
  713/527-8101, ext. 3502
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 12-5
  Type: Art
  Exhibits: Art
  Fee: None

  THE MUSEUM OF FINE ARTS
  1001 Bissonnet at Main
  Houston, TX 77265
  713/526-1361
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 10-5; Sun., 1-6
  Type: Art
  Exhibits: Art from Ancient Egypt, Greece, and Rome; Oriental Works;
              Early Christian and Medieval Objects; Pre-Columbian and
              Tribal Arts; Renaissance Works; Impressionist and
              Post-Impressionist Paintings and Sculpture; and American
              Decorative Arts, Paintings, and Photographs
  Fee: None

  UNIVERSITY OF HOUSTON GALLERY
  Lawndale Annex
  5600 Hillman
  Houston, TX 77023
  713/749-4953
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 10-3; and By Appointment
  Type: Art
  Exhibits: Contemporary Art and Architecture; Regional Art
  Fee: None


_HUMBLE, HARRIS COUNTY_

  HUMBLE HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  Next to the Library, between Main St. and Higgins St.
  Humble, TX 77338
  713/446-9881
  Open: Tues., Thurs., Fri., Sun., 2-5; Sat., 10-4
  Type: History
  Exhibits: General Items and Artifacts Relating to Area
  Fee: None


_HUNTSVILLE, WALKER COUNTY_

  SAM HOUSTON MEMORIAL MUSEUM
  1804 Sam Houston Ave.
  P.O. Box 2054, SHSU
  Huntsville, TX 77340
  409/295-7824
  Open: 9-5, Daily
  Type: Historic/Historic Site/Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building and Site
  Fee: None


_HURST, TARRANT COUNTY_

  HERITAGE ROOM
  Tarrant County Junior College
  828 Harwood Rd.
  Hurst, TX 76053
  817/281-7860, ext. 633
  Open: Mon.-Thurs., 8-10; Fri., 8-5; Sun., 2-6
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_INDEPENDENCE, WASHINGTON COUNTY_

  TEXAS BAPTIST HISTORICAL CENTER MUSEUM
  Corner F.R. 50 and F.R. 390
  Independence, TX 77833
  409/836-5117
  Open: Wed.-Sat., 10-4; Sun., 1-5
  Type: History/Historic Building/Site
  Exhibits: Collection of Historical Records and Books, Family
              Information, and History of the Town’s Educational
              Heritage
  Fee: Donation


_INGLESIDE, SAN PATRICIO COUNTY_

  INGLESIDE HISTORICAL SOCIETY MUSEUM
  200 Block of Mustang Dr.
  P.O. Box 514
  Ingleside, TX 78362
  512/776-7886
  Open: Tues. and Thurs., 10-2; Sat. and Sun., 1-4
  Type: General/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Science, Art, Archeology,
              Prehistory, and Mineralogy
  Fee: None


_IRAAN, PECOS COUNTY_

  IRAAN MUSEUM
  Alley Oop Park
  off S.H. 29
  Iraan, TX 79744
  915/639-2832
  Open: Sat., 10-12, 1-6; Sun., 2-6
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: Donation


_IRVING, DALLAS COUNTY_

  HERITAGE HOUSE
  303 South O’Conner
  P.O. Box 151572
  Irving, TX 75015
  214/253-8640
  Open: First Sunday of Month, 3-6
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building and Site
  Fee: $1 for Nonmembers


_ITASCA, HILL COUNTY_

  ITASCA HISTORICAL MUSEUM AND RECREATION CENTER
  300 Hooks St.
  Itasca, TX 76055
  817/687-2685
  Open: July 4; During Homecoming in October; and By Reservation
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Artifacts and Historical Material Relating to the Families
              of the Area
  Fee: None


_JACKSBORO, JACK COUNTY_

  UMSTED-SHAWVER MUSEUM
  Sid Richardson Scout Ranch
  Route 1, Box 157A
  Jacksboro, TX 76056
  817/374-3248
  Open: By Appointment
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Old Country General Store and Blacksmith Shop
  Fee: None


_JACKSONVILLE, CHEROKEE COUNTY_

  VANISHING TEXANA MUSEUM
  310 South Bolton
  Jacksonville, TX 75766
  214/586-4152
  Open: Mon., 12-8; Tues.-Thurs., 9:30-5:30; Fri., 9-5; Sat., 9-2
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Memorabilia Relating to Texas History
  Fee: None


_JEFFERSON, MARION COUNTY_

  EPPERSON HOUSE
  Delta and Alley Sts.
  Jefferson, TX 75657
  No Telephone
  Open: Write for Information
  Type: Historic House
  Exhibits: Greek Revival and Victorian Architecture in Texas
  Fee: Write for Information

  FREEMAN PLANTATION
  Jefferson, TX 75657
  214/665-2606 or 2320
  Open: Daily except Wed., 11:30-5; and By Appointment
  Type: Historic House
  Exhibits: Greek Revival-Style Home
  Fee: Adults $3; Children $1

  JAY GOULD PRIVATE RAILROAD CAR AND EXCELSIOR HOUSE
  Austin St.
  Jefferson, TX 75657
  214/665-2513
  Open: Daily, 9-4
  Type: Historic Building/Site
  Exhibits: House and Railroad Car
  Fee: 50¢

  JEFFERSON HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  223 West Austin St.
  Jefferson, TX 75657
  214/665-2775
  Open: Daily, 9:30-5
  Type: History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Historical Memorabilia, Objects, and Documents Relating to
              the History of Jefferson and the State
  Fee: Adults $1; Students 50¢

  THE MAGNOLIAS
  209 East Broadway
  Jefferson, TX 75657
  214/665-2754
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 9:30-11 and 1:30-4; Sun., 2:30
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Greek Revival House
  Fee: None


_JOHNSON CITY, BLANCO-GILLESPIE COUNTY_

  LBJ NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK
  Highway 290 West
  P.O. Box 329
  Johnson City, TX 78636
  512/868-7128
  Open: Daily, 9-5
  Type: Historic Site/Building
  Exhibits: Historic Site and Buildings
  Fee: None


_JUNCTION, KIMBLE COUNTY_

  KIMBLE COUNTY HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  Fourth and College St.
  Junction, TX 76849
  915/446-3067 or 2129
  Open: Sun., 2-5
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_KENEDY, KARNES COUNTY_

  KENEDY MUSEUM
  Corner of Main and Fifth
  Kenedy, TX 78119
  512/583-3761
  Open: By Appointment
  Type: History
  Exhibits: History of Karnes County
  Fee: None


_KERMIT, WINKLER COUNTY_

  KERMIT’S MEDALLION HOME
  North Side of Winkler County Park
  Kermit, TX 79745
  915/586-2365
  Open: Sun., 3-5; Weekdays, 9-4
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Oldest Existing Structure in Kermit, Furnished with Period
              Pieces Belonging to Families in the Area
  Fee: None


_KERRVILLE, KERR COUNTY_

  CLASSIC SHOWCASE
  I-10 at Harper Rd., Exit 505
  Kerrville, TX 78028
  512/895-5655
  Open: Mon., Wed.-Sat., 10-5; Sun., 12-5
  Type: General
  Exhibits: Classic Automobiles
  Fee: Adults $1.75; Children $1

  COWBOY ARTISTS OF AMERICA MUSEUM
  1550 Bandera Highway (S.H. 173)
  P.O. Box 1716
  Bandera, TX 78028
  512/896-2553
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 9-5; Sun., 1-5
  Type: Art
  Exhibits: Art
  Fee: Adults $2; Children 50¢


_KILGORE, GREGG COUNTY_

  EAST TEXAS OIL MUSEUM AT KILGORE COLLEGE
  Highway 259 at Ross St.
  Kilgore, TX 75662
  214/984-1445
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 9-4; Sun., 2-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Science, Petroleum, and Geology
  Fee: Nominal Admission Fee

  RANGERETTE SHOWCASE-MUSEUM
  Physical Education Complex
  1100 Broadway at Ross
  Kilgore, TX 75662
  214/984-8531, ext. 301
  Open: Tues.-Fri., 10-12, 1-4:30; Sat.-Sun., 2-5
  Type: General
  Exhibits: Mechanized Display of Rangerette Props, a Display of
              Costumes, Photographs and Clippings, and Short Films and
              Slide Shows of the Rangerettes
  Fee: None


_KINGSVILLE, KLEBERG COUNTY_

  JOHN E. CONNER MUSEUM
  820 West Santa Gertrudis
  Box 2172, Station 1
  Kingsville, TX 78363
  512/595-2819
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 10-5; Sun., 2:30-5
  Type: General
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Science, Natural History, Art,
              Archeology, Prehistory, and Mineralogy
  Fee: None


_LA GRANGE, FAYETTE COUNTY_

  FAYETTE HERITAGE MUSEUM AND ARCHIVES
  855 South Jefferson
  La Grange, TX 78945
  409/968-3765 or 6418
  Open: Tues.-Fri., 10-5; Sat., 10-1; Sun., 1-5
  Type: General/Art
  Exhibits: Local Art and Geological Collections
  Fee: None

  KREISCHE MUSEUM
  Adjacent to Monument Hill State Park
  Route 1, Box 50
  La Grange, TX 78945
  No Telephone
  Open: Daily, 8-8
  Type: History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local History and Historic Building
  Fee: 50¢

  N. W. FAISON HOME AND MUSEUM
  822 South Jefferson St.
  La Grange, TX 78945
  409/968-3898
  Open: Sat.-Sun., 1-5
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Period Furnishings, Pioneer Memorabilia, and Oil Paintings
  Fee: Adults $1; Children 10¢


_LAJITAS, BREWSTER COUNTY_

  LAJITAS MUSEUM AND DESERT GARDEN
  Outside Lajitas on F.M. 170
  Star Route 70, Box 375
  Terlingua, TX 79852
  915/424-3267
  Open: Tues.-Sun., 9-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: History of the Chihuahuan Desert Region
  Fee: Adults $1; Children 75¢


_LAKE JACKSON, BRAZORIA COUNTY_

  BRAZOSPORT MUSEUM OF NATURAL SCIENCE
  400 College Dr.
  Box 355
  Lake Jackson, TX 77566
  409/265-7831
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 10-5; Sun., 2-5
  Type: Science
  Exhibits: Science, Natural History, Archeology, Prehistory, Botany,
              Planetarium, Mineralogy, and Malacology
  Fee: None


_LAMESA, DAWSON COUNTY_

  LAMESA-DAWSON COUNTY MUSEUM
  South Second St. and Ave. M
  Lamesa, TX 79331
  No Telephone
  Open: Sun., 1-5
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_LAMPASAS, LAMPASAS COUNTY_

  CAUTHEN HOUSE
  Third and Walnut
  Lampasas, TX 76550
  No Telephone
  Open: Sun., 2-4, May-August
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Historic House Museum
  Fee: None

  KEYSTONE SQUARE MUSEUM
  303 Western Ave.
  Box 951
  Lampasas, TX 76550
  Open: Wed. and Fri., 10-2
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: $1


_LANGTRY, VAL VERDE COUNTY_

  JUDGE ROY BEAN VISITOR CENTER
  Loop 25
  Box 160
  Langtry, TX 78871
  512/291-3340
  Open: Daily, 8-5
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Botany
  Fee: None


_LaPORTE, HARRIS COUNTY_

  SAN JACINTO MUSEUM OF HISTORY
  3800 Park Rd. 1836
  LaPorte, TX 77571
  713/479-2421
  Open: Daily, 10-6
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Texas History from the Indian Civilizations to the End of
              the 19th Century
  Fee: None


_LAREDO, WEBB COUNTY_

  MUSEUM OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE RIO GRANDE
  1000 Zaragosa
  Box 2896
  Laredo, TX 78041
  512/722-1544
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 9:30-11:30; Sat.-Sun., 9:30-11:30, 2:30-4:30
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: Donation

  NUEVO SANTANDER MUSEUM COMPLEX
  West End Washington St.
  Laredo, TX 78040
  512/722-8351, ext. 321
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 8-4; Sun., 1-5
  Type: General/Historic Site/Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Art, Historic Building and Site,
              and Military History
  Fee: None


_LEVELLAND, HOCKLEY COUNTY_

  SOUTH PLAINS MUSEUM
  608 Ave. H
  Levelland, TX 79336
  806/894-7547
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 2-5
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_LEXINGTON, LEE COUNTY_

  PIONEER VILLAGE MUSEUM
  On the Square
  Lexington, TX 78947
  409/773-2305
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 9-11, 2-4
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_LIBERTY, LIBERTY COUNTY_

  GERALDINE HUMPHREYS CULTURAL CENTER
  1710 Sam Houston Ave.
  Liberty, TX 77575
  409/336-8901
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 10-6; Sat., 10-12, 1-4
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None

  SAM HOUSTON REGIONAL LIBRARY AND RESEARCH CENTER
  F.R. 1011
  P.O. Box 989
  Liberty, TX 77575
  409/336-7097
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 8-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building and Site
  Fee: None


_LIVINGSTON, POLK COUNTY_

  ALABAMA-COUSHATTA INDIAN RESERVATION
  17 Miles East of Livingston on US. 190
  Livingston, TX 77351
  409/563-4391
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 10-5; Sun., 12:30-5
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: History of the Alabama and Coushatta Tribes
  Fee: None; Tours, Adults $7; Children $5

  POLK COUNTY MEMORIAL MUSEUM
  601 West Church St.
  Livingston, TX 77351
  409/327-8192
  Open: Weekdays, 12:30-5
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History and Mineralogy
  Fee: Donation


_LLANO, LLANO COUNTY_

  LLANO COUNTY HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  310 Bessamer Ave.
  Box 434
  Llano, TX 78643
  915/247-4598 or 4051
  Open: September-May, Fri.-Sun., 1:15-5:15; June-August, Daily, 10-12,
              1:30-5:30, Except Mon.
  Type: History/Historic Site/Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building and Site, and
              Mineralogy
  Fee: None


_LOCKHART, CALDWELL COUNTY_

  CALDWELL COUNTY MUSEUM
  1001 Spruce
  Lockhart, TX 78644
  512/398-6614
  Open: Sat.-Sun., 1-5
  Type: History/Historic Site/Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Site and Building
  Fee: Donation

  LOCKHART LOG CABIN MUSEUM
  Highway 183 South
  Lockhart, TX 78644
  512/398-3461
  Open: Call for Hours
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History of Lockhart and Caldwell County
  Fee: None

  MARK WITHERS TRAIL DRIVER MUSEUM
  3 Miles West of Lockhart on Borchert
  Loop off S.H. 142
  Lockhart, TX 78644
  512/398-3375
  Open: Call for Hours
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: History of Trail Drives
  Fee: Call for Admission Fee


_LONGVIEW, GREGG COUNTY_

  CADDO INDIAN MUSEUM
  Between U.S. 80 and Harrison Rd.
  Longview, TX 75604
  214/759-5739
  Open: Daily, 9-6
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Prehistoric and Historic Caddo Indian Artifacts
  Fee: Donation

  GREGG COUNTY HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  Fredonia and Bank Sts.
  P.O. Box 3342
  Longview, TX 75601
  214/753-5840
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 10-4; Sun., 1-4
  Type: General/History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Natural History, Historic
              Building and Site
  Fee: Write for Information

  LONGVIEW MUSEUM AND ART CENTER
  102 West College
  Longview, TX 75606
  214/753-8103
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 9-5; Sun., 1-3
  Type: Art
  Exhibits: Paintings, Sculpture, Drawings, and Graphics by Contemporary
              American Artists
  Fee: None


_LUBBOCK, LUBBOCK COUNTY_

  RANCHING HERITAGE CENTER
  Fourth and Indiana St.
  P.O. Box 4099
  Lubbock, TX 79409
  806/742-2498
  Open: Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Sat., 9-4:30; Thurs., 9-8:30; Sun.,
              1-4:30
  Type: History/Historic Building/Site
  Exhibits: History of Ranching
  Fee: None

  THE MUSEUM
  Fourth St. and Indiana Ave.
  Texas Tech University
  P.O. Box 4499
  Lubbock, TX 79409
  806/742-2442 or 2498
  Open: Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Sat., 9-4:30; Thurs., 9-8:30; Sun.,
              1-4:30
  Type: History/Art/Science
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Natural History, Art, Archeology,
              Botany, Historic Site and Building, Mineralogy
  Fee: None


_LUFKIN, ANGELINA COUNTY_

  HISTORICAL AND CREATIVE ARTS CENTER
  Corner of Second and Paul Sts.
  P.O. Box 771
  Lufkin, TX 75901
  409/639-4434 or 4435
  Open: Tues.-Fri., 10-4; Sun., 1-5
  Type: General/History/Art/Science/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Science, Natural History, and Art
  Fee: None

  TEXAS FORESTRY MUSEUM
  1905 Atkinson Dr.
  P.O. Box 1488
  Lufkin, TX 75901
  409/634-5523
  Open: Daily, 1-4:30
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Science, Natural History, Art,
              and Botany
  Fee: None


_McALLEN, HIDALGO COUNTY_

  McALLEN HUDSON MUSEUM
  3321 Expressway 83
  McAllen, TX 78501
  512/686-0311
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 10-6; Sun., 1:30-6
  Type: General
  Exhibits: Automobiles, Country Store, Small Gun Collection, Coin
              Collection
  Fee: None

  McALLEN INTERNATIONAL MUSEUM
  1900 Nolana
  McAllen, TX 78501
  512/682-1564
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 9-5; Sun., 1-5
  Type: Natural History/Art/Science
  Exhibits: Changing Exhibits
  Fee: None


_McCAMEY, UPTON COUNTY_

  MENDOZA TRAIL MUSEUM
  Santa Fe Park
  Highway 67 East
  Box 123
  McCamey, TX 79752
  No Telephone
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 1:30-5; and By Appointment
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_McDADE, BASTROP COUNTY_

  McDADE MUSEUM
  Main St.
  McDade, TX 78650
  No Telephone
  Open: By Appointment
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_McKINNEY, COLLIN COUNTY_

  HEARD NATURAL SCIENCE MUSEUM AND WILDLIFE SANCTUARY
  F.R. 1378, 1 Mile East of S.H. 5
  Route 6, Box 22
  McKinney, TX 75069
  214/542-5566
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 9-5; Sun., 1-5
  Type: Art/Science
  Exhibits: Natural History, Art, Archeology, Prehistory, Botany, Zoo,
              and Mineralogy
  Fee: None

  OLD POST OFFICE MUSEUM
  Chestnut at Virginia Sts.
  McKinney, TX 75069
  214/542-0163
  Open: Every Tues, 2-5, and By Appointment
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_McLEAN, GRAY COUNTY_

  ALANREED-McLEAN AREA MUSEUM
  117 North Main St.
  McLean, TX 79057
  806/779-2731
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 11-4
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_McNARY, HUDSPETH COUNTY_

  COVERED WAGON TRADING POST
  U.S. 80
  Box 100
  McNary, TX 79841
  915/769-5850
  Open: Daily, 8-5, Except Sun.
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Art, and Archeology
  Fee: None

  FORT QUITMAN REPLICA
  I-10 and F.M. 34
  Box 2
  McNary, TX 79841
  No Telephone
  Open: June-September, Daily, 9-5
  Type: History/Historic Building/Site
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building and Site, Fort
              Collections of Prehistoric Indians
  Fee: Adults 50¢; Children 25¢


_MADISONVILLE, MADISON COUNTY_

  YESTERYEAR GHOST TOWN
  10 Miles North of Madisonville on I-45
  Route 2, Box 41A
  Madisonville, TX 77864
  214/344-2468
  Open: Daily, Summer, 9-7, Winter, 10-5
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building and Site
  Fee: Adults $1; Children 50¢


_MARFA, PRESIDIO COUNTY_

  MARFA-PRESIDIO COUNTY MUSEUM
  221 North Mesa
  Marfa, TX 79843
  915/729-4942
  Open: Call for Hours
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_MARLIN, FALLS COUNTY_

  FALLS COUNTY HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  141 Railroad St.
  Marlin, TX 76661
  817/883-6707
  Open: Mon.-Tues., 10-4; Wed.-Fri., 1-4; Sat.-Sun., 2-5
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: Donation

  HIGHLAND’S MANSION
  1 Block East of Junction of S.H. 6 and F.R. 147
  Box 556
  Marlin, TX 76661
  817/936-5234
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 10-4; Sun., 1-4
  Type: History/Art/Historic Site/Building
  Exhibits: Natural History and Art
  Fee: Adults $3; Children $2


_MARSHALL, HARRISON COUNTY_

  FRANK’S ANTIQUE SHOP AND DOLL MUSEUM
  211 West Grand Ave.
  Marshall, TX 75670
  214/935-3065 or 3070
  Open: By Appointment to Groups of 10 or More
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Doll Museum and Related Toys and Furniture
  Fee: Adults $2; Children $1

  HARRISON COUNTY HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  Courthouse, Peter Whetstone Square
  Marshall, TX 75670
  214/938-2680
  Open: Sun.-Fri., 1:30-5
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: Adults 50¢; Students 25¢


_MASON, MASON COUNTY_

  FORT MASON OFFICER’S QUARTERS
  Spruce St.
  Box 478
  Mason, TX 76856
  915/347-5725
  Open: Daily
  Type: History/Historic Site
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Site and Buildings
  Fee: None

  MASON COUNTY MUSEUM
  300 Moody St.
  Box 303
  Mason, TX 76856
  915/347-6411
  Open: Daily, 9-5; Appointments on Weekends
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_MEMPHIS, HALL COUNTY_

  HALL COUNTY HERITAGE HALL
  101 South Sixth St.
  Memphis, TX 79245
  806/259-3345
  Open: Mon., Wed., Fri., 1-4
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Natural Sciences
  Fee: None


_MENARD, MENARD COUNTY_

  MENARDVILLE MUSEUM
  U.S. 83, North of the San Saba River
  Menard, TX 76859
  915/396-4318
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 9-5
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: Call for Admission Fee


_MERCEDES, HIDALGO COUNTY_

  RED HORSE MUSEUM
  Expressway 83 and Virginia Ave.
  Mercedes, TX 78570
  512/565-6560
  Open: Tues.-Sun., 10-6
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Saloon, Pioneer Home, Barn, Livery Stable, Barber Shop,
              Musical Instruments, Panorama of South Texas Wildlife
  Fee: Adults $1.50; Children 75¢


_MERTZON, IRION COUNTY_

  IRION COUNTY MUSEUM
  1 Block North of Courthouse
  Box 770
  Mertzon, TX 76941
  915/835-4111
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 12:30-4:30
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local History
  Fee: None


_MIAMI, ROBERTS COUNTY_

  ROBERTS COUNTY MUSEUM
  U.S. 60
  Box 306
  Miami, TX 79059
  806/868-3291
  Open: Winter, Mon.-Tues., Thurs.-Fri., 1-5; Sat.-Sun., 2-5, Closed
              Wed.; Summer, Same Days, 10-5, Weekends, 2-5
  Type: General/History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Natural History, Archeology,
              Historic Building, and Mineralogy
  Fee: None


_MIDLAND, MIDLAND COUNTY_

  MIDLAND COUNTY HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  301 West Missouri
  2102 Community Ln.
  Midland, TX 79701
  915/683-2708
  Open: Mon.-Thurs., 11-5; Sat., 9-12, 1-4
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Natural History, Archeology,
              Prehistory, and Mineralogy
  Fee: None

  MUSEUM OF THE SOUTHWEST
  1705 West Missouri
  Midland, TX 79701
  915/683-2882
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 10-5; Sun., 2-5
  Type: Art
  Exhibits: Taos Artists, Paintings, Sculpture, Graphics, Ethnographic
              Materials
  Fee: None

  NITA STEWART HALEY MEMORIAL LIBRARY
  1805 West Indiana Ave.
  Midland, TX 79701
  915/682-5785
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 9-5
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Books, Photographs, Manuscripts, Maps, Works of Art, and
              Artifacts Relating to the History of Texas and the
              Southwest
  Fee: None

  PERMIAN BASIN PETROLEUM MUSEUM
  1500 I-20 West
  Midland, TX 79701
  915/683-4403
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 9-5; Sun., 2-5
  Type: History/Science
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Science, Art, and Petroleum
              Industry
  Fee: Adults $1.50; Children 75¢

  PLISKA AIRCRAFT MUSEUM
  Midland Regional Air Terminal
  P.O. Box 6305-ATS
  Midland, TX 79711
  915/563-1460
  Open: Daily, 8-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None

  Z. TAYLOR BROWN-DORSEY MEDALLION HOME
  213 North Weatherford
  Midland, TX 79701
  915/682-2931
  Open: By Appointment for Groups
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_MISSION, HIDALGO COUNTY_

  LA LOMITA FARMS REGIONAL MUSEUM
  5 Miles South of Mission on F.R. 1016
  Mission, TX 78572
  512/581-2725
  Open: Daily, 8-5
  Type: Art
  Exhibits: Art House in St. Peter’s Novitiate
  Fee: None

  WILLIAM JENNINGS BRYAN HOUSE MUSEUM
  1 Mile North on Bryan Rd.
  Box 322
  Mission, TX 78572
  512/582-2383
  Open: By Appointment
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: Adults 50¢


_MORAN, SHACKELFORD COUNTY_

  MORAN HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  Ground St.
  Route 1
  Moran, TX 76464
  915/945-2942
  Open: By Appointment
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Old Tools, Household Items, Clothing, Antiques
  Fee: None


_MORTON, COCHRAN COUNTY_

  COCHRAN COUNTY MUSEUM
  206 Southwest First
  Morton, TX 79346
  806/266-5508
  Open: By Appointment
  Type: History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History and Historic Building
  Fee: None


_MOULTON, LAVACA COUNTY_

  COMMUNITY HERITAGE HOUSE
  South St.
  Route 1, Box 25
  Moulton, TX 77975
  512/596-4442
  Open: First and Third Sun. of Each Month, 2-5
  Type: History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History and Historic Building
  Fee: None


_NACOGDOCHES, NACOGDOCHES COUNTY_

  MILLARD’S CROSSING ANTIQUES AND HISTORIC VILLAGE
  6020 North St.
  Nacogdoches, TX 75961
  409/564-6969
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 9-4; Sun., 1-4
  Type: Historic Site/Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: $2.50

  OLD NACOGDOCHES UNIVERSITY BUILDING
  Mound and Hughes St.
  Nacogdoches, TX 75961
  409/564-0084
  Open: Sat.-Sun., 10-12, 2-5; Daily, June-August, Same Hours
  Type: Historic Site
  Exhibits: Early Texas Furniture, Vintage Clothing, Manuscripts, Deeds,
              Church Furniture, Farm Tools, Schoolroom, and Desks
  Fee: Donation

  STERNE-HOYA HOME
  211 South Lanana St.
  Nacogdoches, TX 75961
  409/564-4693, ext. 122
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 9-12, 2-5
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Memorabilia of Early Texas
  Fee: None

  STONE FORT MUSEUM
  Clark Dr. and Griffith Blvd.
  Box 6075, SFA
  Nacogdoches, TX 75962
  409/569-2408
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 9-5; Sun., 1-5
  Type: History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Archeology, and Prehistory
  Fee: Donation


_NEDERLAND, JEFFERSON COUNTY_

  DUTCH WINDMILL MUSEUM
  Tex Ritter Park
  1528 Boston Ave.
  Nederland, TX 77627
  409/722-0279
  Open: March-Labor Day, Tues.-Sun., 1-5; Labor Day-March 1,
              Thurs.-Sun., 1-5
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Dutch Windmill, Mementos from Holland, Artifacts of the
              Region
  Fee: None

  LA MAISON ACADIENS
  Tex Ritter Park
  1520 Boston Ave.
  P.O. Box 891
  Nederland, TX 77627
  409/722-0947
  Open: March-August, Tues.-Sun., 1-5; September-February, Thurs.-Sun.,
              1-5
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_NEW BRAUNFELS, COMAL COUNTY_

  LINDHEIMER MUSEUM
  Comal St.
  New Braunfels, TX 78130
  512/625-7046
  Open: June-August, Daily, 2-5, Except Mon.; September-May, Sat.-Sun.,
              2-5
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Ancient Fachwerk Style House, Lindheimer’s Office and Print
              Shop
  Fee: 50¢

  SOPHIENBURG MEMORIAL MUSEUM AND ARCHIVES
  401 West Coll St.
  New Braunfels, TX 78130
  512/629-1572
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 10-5; Sun., 1-5
  Type: History/Historic Site
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History and Historic Site
  Fee: Adults $1; Children 25¢


_NEWCASTLE, YOUNG COUNTY_

  FORT BELKNAP MUSEUM
  3 Miles South of Newcastle
  Newcastle, TX 76372
  817/846-3222
  Open: Thurs.-Tues., 9-5
  Type: History/Historic Site
  Exhibits: Frontier Weapons, Furnishings, and Tools
  Fee: None


_NOCONA, MONTAGUE COUNTY_

  JOE BENTON MUSEUM
  Off U.S. 82
  Nocona, TX 76225
  817/825-6557
  Open: By Appointment Only
  Type: General
  Exhibits: Aboriginal and European Artifacts
  Fee: None


_NORDHEIM, DEWITT COUNTY_

  NORDHEIM HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  1 Block off Main St. Behind the Post Office
  Nordheim, TX 78141
  512/938-5886
  Open: Call for Hours
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: Call for Admission Fee


_ODESSA, ECTOR COUNTY_

  THE PRESIDENTIAL MUSEUM
  622 North Lee
  Odessa, TX 79761
  915/332-7123
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 10-12, 1-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Political History
  Fee: None

  WHITE-POOL HOUSE
  112 East Murphy St.
  1517 Englewood Ln.
  Odessa, TX 79761
  915/362-6050
  Open: Call for Hours
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building and Site
  Fee: None


_O’DONNELL, LYNN-DAWSON COUNTY_

  O’DONNELL MUSEUM
  Eighth and Doak Sts.
  O’Donnell, TX 79351
  806/428-3719
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 9-11, 2-5; Sun., 2-5
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: Donation


_ORANGE, ORANGE COUNTY_

  HERITAGE HOUSE MUSEUM
  905 West Division St.
  P.O. Drawer F
  Orange, TX 77630
  409/886-5385
  Open: Tues.-Fri., 10-2; Sun., 1-5
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building and Site
  Fee: Adults $1; Students 50¢

  STARK MUSEUM OF ART
  712 Green Ave.
  P.O. Box 1897
  Orange, TX 77630
  409/883-6661
  Open: Wed.-Sat., 10-5; Sun., 1-5
  Type: Art
  Exhibits: Art
  Fee: None

  W. H. STARK HOUSE
  610 West Main
  Orange, TX 77630
  409/883-0871
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 10-3:30; Reservations Required
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Original Furniture, Rugs, Family Portraits, Lighting, and
              Detailed Woodwork That Exemplifies the Height of
              Craftsmanship in Queen Anne-Eastlake Style in Texas
  Fee: $2


_OZONA, CROCKETT COUNTY_

  CROCKETT COUNTY MUSEUM
  Courthouse Annex on U.S. 290
  Drawer B
  Ozona, TX 76943
  915/392-2837
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 2-5
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Natural History, Archeology, and
              Prehistory
  Fee: Donation


_PADUCAH, COTTLE COUNTY_

  BICENTENNIAL CITY-COUNTY MUSEUM
  Cottle County Courthouse Basement
  Paducah, TX 79248
  806/492-2006
  Open: Mon. and Wed., 1-5; Tues. and Thurs., 10-11:30, 1-5
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_PALESTINE, ANDERSON COUNTY_

  HOWARD HOUSE MUSEUM
  1007 North Perry St.
  Palestine, TX 75801
  No Telephone
  Open: By Appointment
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_PALO PINTO, PALO PINTO COUNTY_

  PALO PINTO COUNTY PIONEER MUSEUM
  Elm St. and Fifth Ave.
  Box 42
  Palo Pinto, TX 76072
  817/659-3751 or 3781 or 3501
  Open: June-August, Sat.-Sun., 1-4; and By Appointment
  Type: General/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Archeology, Prehistory, Historic
              Building and Site
  Fee: None


_PAMPA, GRAY COUNTY_

  WHITE DEER LAND MUSEUM
  116 South Cuyler St.
  P.O. Box 1556
  Pampa, TX 79065
  806/665-5521
  Open: Tues.-Sun., 1:30-4
  Type: General/History/Art/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Art and Historic Building
  Fee: None


_PANHANDLE, CARSON COUNTY_

  CARSON COUNTY SQUARE HOUSE MUSEUM
  Fifth and Elsie Sts.
  Box 276
  Panhandle, TX 79068
  806/537-3118
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 9-5:30; Sun., 1-5:30
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Natural History, Art, Historic
              Building and Site
  Fee: None


_PANNA MARIA, KARNES COUNTY_

  PANNA MARIA MUSEUM
  F.R. 81, 1 Mile off S.H. 123
  P.O. Box 38
  Panna Maria, TX 78666
  512/780-3462
  Open: Upon Request
  Type: General/History/Historic Site/Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building and Site
  Fee: Donation


_PARIS, LAMAR COUNTY_

  A.M. AND WELMA AIKIN REGIONAL ARCHIVES
  Mike Rheudasil Learning Center
  Paris Junior College
  Paris, TX 75460
  214/785-7661
  Open: Regular College Hours
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Material Relating to Career of Senator A.M. Aikin
  Fee: None

  FLYING TIGERS AIR MUSEUM
  Highway 82 West of Paris About 5 Miles
  P.O. Box 113
  Paris, TX 75460
  214/784-3613
  Open: Daily, 8-5
  Type: General
  Exhibits: Aircraft
  Fee: $1


_PASADENA, HARRIS COUNTY_

  PASADENA HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  Pasadena Memorial Park
  Vince St. at S.H. 225
  Pasadena, TX 77506
  713/477-7273
  Open: Sat.-Sun., 1-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_PEARSALL, FRIO COUNTY_

  FRIO PIONEER JAIL MUSEUM
  Corner of East Medina and South Pecan St.
  P.O. Box 578
  Pearsall, TX 78061
  512/334-3896
  Open: Sat.-Sun., 1-5
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building
  Fee: None


_PECOS, REEVES COUNTY_

  WEST OF THE PECOS MUSEUM
  Corner U.S. 285 and First St.
  Pecos, TX 79772
  915/445-5076
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 9:30-5; Sun., 2-5:30
  Type: History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Hotel, Rock and Mineral Exhibits, Rodeo Room, and Period
              Rooms
  Fee: Adults $1


_PERRYTON, OCHILTREE COUNTY_

  MUSEUM OF THE PLAINS
  U.S. 83 North
  P.O. Box 623
  Perryton, TX 79070
  806/435-6400
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 10-5:30
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_PHARR, HIDALGO COUNTY_

  OLD CLOCK MUSEUM
  929 Preston St.
  Pharr, TX 78577
  512/787-1923
  Open: Daily, 10 am-Midnight
  Type: General
  Exhibits: Old Clocks and Music Boxes
  Fee: None


_PLAINS, YOAKUM COUNTY_

  TSA MO GA MEMORIAL MUSEUM
  1109 Ave. H
  Box 455
  Plains, TX 79355
  806/456-3212
  Open: By Appointment
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_PLAINVIEW, HALE COUNTY_

  MUSEUM OF THE LLANO ESTACADO
  Wayland Baptist University
  Plainview, TX 79072
  806/296-5521, ext. 53
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 10-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Science, Natural History,
              Archeology, Prehistory, and Mineralogy
  Fee: None


_PLANO, COLLIN COUNTY_

  FARMSTEAD MUSEUM
  Heritage Center
  1900 West 15th St.
  Plano, TX 75075
  214/424-7874
  Open: Call for Information
  Type: Historic Site
  Exhibits: Living History Museum
  Fee: None


_PLEASANTON, ATASCOSA COUNTY_

  LONGHORN MUSEUM
  U.S. 97 East
  P.O. Box 601
  Pleasanton, TX 78064
  512/569-6313 or 3219
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 1-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Prehistory, Origin of Cowboy,
              History of Mission Ranches
  Fee: Donation


_PORT ARTHUR, JEFFERSON COUNTY_

  POMPEIIAN VILLA
  1935 Lakeshore Dr.
  Port Arthur, TX 77640
  409/983-5977
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 9-4
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Summer Retreat, Restored and Furnished
  Fee: Adults $2; Children $1

  PORT ARTHUR HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  Gates Memorial Library
  Lamar University at Port Arthur
  317 Stilwell Blvd.
  Port Arthur, TX 77640
  409/938-4921, ext. 337
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 10-2; Other Hours By Appointment
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_PORT LAVACA, CALHOUN COUNTY_

  CALHOUN COUNTY JAIL MUSEUM
  112 Bowie St.
  P.O. Box 988
  Port Lavaca, TX 77979
  512/552-6342
  Open: Tues.-Fri., 2-6; Sat., 9-1
  Type: General/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building and Site
  Fee: None


_POST, GARZA COUNTY_

  GARZA COUNTY HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  117 North Ave. N
  Post, TX 79356
  806/495-2746
  Open: By Appointment
  Type: General/History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_PYOTE, WARD COUNTY_

  RATTLESNAKE BOMBER BASE
  I-20 Outside Pyote
  Box 120
  Pyote, TX 79777
  915/389-4091 or 4921
  Open: Sat., 9-6; Sun., 2-6; By Appointment During the Week
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Natural History and Military
  Fee: None


_QUANAH, HARDEMAN COUNTY_

  HARDEMAN COUNTY HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  Green St.
  Quanah, TX 79252
  817/663-5902 or 5272
  Open: Sat., Sun., Mon., 2-5
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: History of Quanah and Hardeman County
  Fee: None


_RALLS, CROSBY COUNTY_

  RALLS HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  801 Main St.
  Box 384
  Ralls, TX 79357
  806/253-2425
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 9-12, 2-5; Sun., 2-5
  Type: General/History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_RANKIN, UPTON COUNTY_

  RANKIN MUSEUM
  200 West Fifth St.
  Box 82
  Rankin, TX 79778
  915/693-2770
  Open: Thurs., Fri., 2-5; Sat., 1-5
  Type: History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_RAYMONDVILLE, WILLACY COUNTY_

  RAYMONDVILLE HISTORICAL AND COMMUNITY CENTER
  Harris and Seventh Sts.
  P.O. Box 266
  Raymondville, TX 78580
  512/689-3171
  Open: Wed. and Sat., 1-5
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, and Natural History
  Fee: None


_REFUGIO, REFUGIO COUNTY_

  REFUGIO COUNTY MUSEUM
  102 West St.
  Refugio, TX 78377
  512/526-5555
  Open: Daily, 10-5; Sat.-Sun., 1-5; Summer Hours, 11-6
  Type: General/History/Art/Science
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Science, Art, Archeology, and
              Prehistory
  Fee: None


_RICHARDSON, DALLAS COUNTY_

  HISTORY OF AVIATION COLLECTION
  University of Texas at Dallas
  Campbell Rd. at Floyd
  Richardson, TX 75080
  214/690-2996
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 9:30-12, 1-5; and By Appointment
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Aviation History
  Fee: None


_RICHMOND, FORT BEND COUNTY_

  CONFEDERATE MUSEUM
  603 Calhoun St.
  P.O. Box 179
  Richmond, TX 77469
  713/342-8787
  Open: Sun., 2-4; or By Special Appointment
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building and Site,
              Confederate Collection
  Fee: None

  FORT BEND COUNTY MUSEUM
  500 Houston St.
  P.O. Box 251
  Richmond, TX 77469
  713/342-6478
  Open: Tues.-Fri., 10-4; Sat.-Sun., 1-5
  Type: History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building and Site
  Fee: Adults $2


_RIVIERA, KLEBERG COUNTY_

  RIVIERA HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  P.O. Box 152
  Riviera, TX 78379
  512/296-3676
  Open: Tues. and Thurs., 10-5
  Type: General/History/Art/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Art, Mineralogy
  Fee: None


_ROBSTOWN, NUECES COUNTY_

  VIOLET MUSEUM
  3 Miles East of Robstown off South Violet Rd.
  Route 3, Box 152
  Robstown, TX 78380
  512/387-2273
  Open: Tours Available By Appointment
  Type: General/History/Historic Site/Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building and Site
  Fee: $1


_ROCKPORT, ARANSAS COUNTY_

  MARINE LABORATORY AND MUSEUM
  Turning Basin
  P.O. Box 1717
  Rockport, TX 78382
  512/729-2328
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 8-5
  Type: Science
  Exhibits: Aquarium
  Fee: None


_ROMA, STARR COUNTY_

  ROMA HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  Lot 1, Block 3
  Box 123
  Roma, TX 78584
  No Telephone
  Open: Weekdays, 9-4
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: Donation


_ROSANKY, BASTROP COUNTY_

  CENTRAL TEXAS MUSEUM OF AUTOMOTIVE HISTORY
  12 Miles South of Bastrop on S.H. 304
  Rosanky, TX 78953
  512/237-2745
  Open: Wed.-Sat., 9-5; Sun., 2:30-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Early Automobiles and Accessories
  Fee: Nominal Admission Charge


_ROSCOE, NOLAN COUNTY_

  ROSCOE MUSEUM
  304 Hickory
  P.O. Box 421
  Roscoe, TX 79545
  No Telephone
  Open: Sat. and Sun. Afternoons, Summer Months
  Type: General/History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building and Site
  Fee: None


_ROUND ROCK, WILLIAMSON COUNTY_

  PALM HOUSE MUSEUM
  212 East Main
  Round Rock, TX 78664
  512/255-5805
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 8:30-5
  Type: General/History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Elegant Parlor, Pioneer Swedish Kitchen and Slave Cabins
  Fee: None

  WASHINGTON ANDERSON-IRVIN HOUSE MUSEUM
  U.S. 79
  Round Rock, TX 78664
  512/255-2605
  Open: By Appointment
  Type: General/History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Various Objects
  Fee: $1.50


_ROUND TOP, FAYETTE COUNTY_

  HENKEL SQUARE
  Live Oak and First Sts.
  Round Top, TX 78954
  No Telephone
  Open: Write for Information
  Type: Historic Site
  Exhibits: Houses Furnished with Authentic Early Texas Furniture
  Fee: Write for Information

  WINEDALE HISTORICAL CENTER
  4 Miles East on F.M. 1457
  P.O. Box 11
  Round Top, TX 78954
  409/278-3530
  Open: Tues.-Fri., By Appointment; Sat., 10-5; Sun., 12-5
  Type: Historic Building/Site
  Exhibits: Historic Building and Site
  Fee: Adults $2; Students 50¢


_RUNGE, KARNES COUNTY_

  RUNGE MUSEUM
  109 North Mugge
  Runge, TX 78151
  512/329-4372 or 4243
  Open: By Appointment
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: Donation


_SAINT JO, MONTAGUE COUNTY_

  STONEWALL SALOON HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  Main and Howell Sts.
  Box 61
  Saint Jo, TX 76265
  817/995-2250
  Open: Weekdays, 8-6
  Type: Historic Site/Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building and Site
  Fee: None


_SALADO, BELL COUNTY_

  CENTRAL TEXAS AREA MUSEUM
  1 Main St.
  Salado, TX 76571
  817/947-5232 or 5613
  Open: By Appointment
  Type: History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Archeology, Prehistory, and
              Historic Building and Site
  Fee: Donation


_SAN ANGELO, TOM GREEN COUNTY_

  COLONIAL DAMES XVII CENTURY
  2502 West Twohig
  San Angelo, TX 76901
  915/949-1444
  Open: By Appointment
  Type: History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building
  Fee: None

  E.H. DANNER MUSEUM OF TELEPHONY
  2701 South Johnson
  San Angelo, TX 76904
  915/944-5306
  Open: Weekdays, 8-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None

  FORT CONCHO MUSEUM
  716 Burgess St.
  San Angelo, TX 76903
  915/655-2121, ext. 441
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 9-5; Sun., 1-5
  Type: General/History/Historic Site/Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Natural History, Archeology,
              Prehistory, Historic Building and Site, and Mineralogy
  Fee: Adults $1; Children 50¢


_SAN ANTONIO, BEXAR COUNTY_

  BUCKHORN HALL OF HORNS AND HALL OF TEXAS HISTORY
  Lone Star Brewing Company, Inc.
  600 Lone Star Blvd.
  P.O. Box 2060
  San Antonio, TX 78297
  512/226-8301
  Open: Daily, 9:30-5
  Type: History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Natural History
  Fee: Adults $1.25; Children 50¢

  CARVER COMMUNITY CULTURAL CENTER
  226 North Hackberry
  San Antonio, TX 78202
  512/299-7211
  Open: Daily, 7:45-4:30
  Type: Art/Historic Site
  Exhibits: Art Dating From 1929
  Fee: None

  HANGAR 9, EDWARD H. WHITE II MEMORIAL MUSEUM
  Brooks Air Force Base
  San Antonio, TX 78235
  512/536-2203
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 8-4
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: History of the Base and the Development of Manned Flight
  Fee: None

  HERTZBERG CIRCUS COLLECTION
  210 West Market St.
  San Antonio, TX 78205
  512/299-7810
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 9-5:30; Sun., 1-5; May-October Only
  Type: General
  Exhibits: Circusana
  Fee: None

  HISTORY AND TRADITIONS MUSEUM
  Air Force Military Training Center
  Orville Wright Dr.
  Lackland Air Force Base
  San Antonio, TX 78236
  512/671-3055
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 9-4; Sat.-Sun., 9-6
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Collection of Rare Aeronautical Equipment
  Fee: None

  INSTITUTE OF TEXAN CULTURES
  801 South Bowie St.
  P.O. Box 1226
  San Antonio, TX 78205
  512/226-7651
  Open: Tues.-Sun., 9-5
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: State, Local, and Pioneer History; Science; Natural History;
              Art; Ethnic Culture and Folk History of Texas
  Fee: None

  JERSEY LILLY SALOON
  312 Pearl Parkway
  San Antonio, TX 78215
  512/226-0231
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 10-4
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: 1894 Stable, Artifacts Relating to Texas History
  Fee: None

  LA VILLITA EXHIBIT
  Bolivar Hall, La Villita
  San Antonio, TX 78205
  512/224-6163
  Open: Tues.-Sun., 10-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Development of La Villita
  Fee: Donation

  MARION KOOGLER McNAY ART MUSEUM
  6000 N. New Braunfels Ave.
  San Antonio, TX 78209
  512/824-5368
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 9-5; Sun., 2-5
  Type: Art
  Exhibits: Pieces by Cezanne, Gauguin, Redon, Picasso; Medieval and
              Mexican Art; Watercolors by American Artists; New Mexico
              Folk Art; Frederic Oppenheimer Collection; Panel
              Paintings; Monumental Sculptures
  Fee: Donation

  NUESTRA SEÑORA DE LA PURISIMA CONCEPCION DE ACUÑA
  807 Mission Rd.
  San Antonio, TX 78214
  512/532-3158
  Open: Daily, 9:30-5:30
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Mission
  Fee: Adults $1; Children 50¢

  O. HENRY HOUSE
  600 Lone Star Blvd.
  San Antonio, TX 78297
  512/226-8301
  Open: Daily, 9:30-5
  Type: History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Restored House
  Fee: Adults $1.25; Children 50¢

  OLD TRAIL DRIVERS ASSOCIATION
  3805 Broadway
  San Antonio, TX 78209
  512/822-9011
  Open: Wed.-Sun., 10-4
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: Adults $1; Children 25¢

  SAN ANTONIO MUSEUM OF ART
  200 West Jones Ave.
  P.O. Box 2601
  San Antonio, TX 78209
  512/226-5544
  Open: June 1-August 31, Tues.-Sun., 10-6; September 1-May 31, 10-5
  Type: Art/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Art, Archeology, Prehistory, Historic Building and Site
  Fee: Adults $2; Children $1; Free Sat. and Sun. Mornings

  SAN ANTONIO MUSEUM OF TRANSPORTATION
  HemisFair Plaza
  P.O. Box 2601
  San Antonio, TX 78209
  512/226-5544
  Open: Tues.-Sun., 10-6; Sun., 12-5; Thurs., 10-9
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Transportation
  Fee: Adults $2; Children $1; Free Sat. and Sun. Mornings

  SAN FRANCISCO DE LA ESPADA
  Espada Rd. off U.S. 281
  San Antonio, TX 78221
  512/627-2021
  Open: Daily, 9:30-5:30
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Stone Chapel, Cloisters, Convent, and Foundation of Other
              Dwellings
  Fee: Adults $1; Children 50¢

  SAN JOSE Y SAN MIGUEL DE AGUAYO
  6539 San Jose Dr.
  San Antonio, TX 78214
  512/922-2731
  Open: Daily, 9:30-6
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Exhibits in Mission Relate to Its Original Use
  Fee: Adults 50¢; Children 25¢

  SAN JUAN CAPISTRANO
  9101 Graf Rd.
  San Antonio, TX 78221
  512/532-3154
  Open: Daily, 9:30-5:30
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Two-Tiered Bell Tower
  Fee: Adults $1; Children 50¢

  SPANISH GOVERNOR’S PALACE
  105 Military Plaza
  105 Plaza de Armas
  San Antonio, TX 78205
  512/224-0601
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 9-5; Sun., 10-5
  Type: Art/Historic Site/Building
  Exhibits: Natural History, Art, Historic Building and Site, Spanish
              Colonial Furniture
  Fee: Adults 50¢; Children 25¢

  STEVES HOMESTEAD
  509 King William St.
  San Antonio, TX 78204
  512/225-5924
  Open: Wed.-Sun., 10-5; Mon.-Tues., 1-5
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Mansion Furnished with Authentic 19th-Century Pieces
  Fee: Adults $1; Children 50¢

  THE ALAMO
  Alamo Plaza
  P.O. Box 2599
  San Antonio, TX 78299
  512/225-3853
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 9-5:30; Sun., 10-5:30
  Type: History/Art/Historic Site/Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Art, Archeology, Historic
              Building and Site
  Fee: None

  USAF SECURITY POLICE MUSEUM
  Lackland Air Force Base
  San Antonio, TX 78236
  512/671-2801 or 671-2802
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 8-4
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Security Police History
  Fee: None

  WITTE MEMORIAL MUSEUM
  3801 Broadway
  P.O. Box 2601
  San Antonio, TX 78209
  512/226-5544
  Open: June 1-August 31, Tues.-Sat., 10-6
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Natural History, Archeology, and
              Prehistory
  Fee: Adults $2; Children $1; Free Sat. and Sun. Mornings

  YTURRI-EDMUNDS HOME
  807 Mission Rd.
  San Antonio, TX 78214
  No Telephone
  Open: Write for Information
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: 1840 Adobe House, Mill, and Carriage House
  Fee: Write for Information


_SAN FELIPE, AUSTIN COUNTY_

  J. J. JOSEY STORE MUSEUM
  Stephen F. Austin State Park
  Box 936
  San Felipe, TX 77473
  409/885-2217
  Open: December-March, Sat.-Sun., 1-5; April-November, Sat.-Sun., 9-5
  Type: History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building and Site,
              Country Store
  Fee: Adults 35¢; Children 15¢


_SAN MARCOS, HAYS COUNTY_

  DR. ELI T. MERRIMAN HOME
  Loop 82, Aquarena Springs
  San Marcos, TX 78666
  512/392-2481
  Open: Winter, Mon.-Fri., 8:30-6, Sat.-Sun., 8:30-6:30; Summer,
              Mon.-Fri., 8-9 p.m., Sat., Sun., Holidays, 8-10 p.m.
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Original One-Room Log Cabin
  Fee: $1.20

  GENERAL EDWARD BURLESON HOUSE
  Loop 82, Aquarena Springs
  San Marcos, TX 78666
  512/392-2481
  Open: Winter, Mon.-Fri., 8:30-6, Sat.-Sun., 8:30-6:30; Summer,
              Mon.-Fri., 8-9 pm, Sat., Sun., Holidays, 8-10 pm
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Personal Documents, Letters, and Artifacts Relating to
              General Burleson’s Career
  Fee: $2.40


_SAN SABA, SAN SABA COUNTY_

  SAN SABA COUNTY HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  Mill Pond Park (East of San Saba on U.S. 190)
  San Saba, TX 76877
  915/372-5436 or 3427 or 5276
  Open: Sun., 1:30-4:30; Weekdays, By Appointment
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None

  SAN SABA LOG CABIN MUSEUM
  Mill Pond Park (East of San Saba on U.S. 190)
  San Saba, TX 76877
  No Telephone
  Open: Wed. and Sun., 2-5
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Stables
  Fee: None


_SANTA ANNA, COLEMAN COUNTY_

  OLD ROCK HOUSE
  U.S. 84, 1 Mile Northwest of Santa Anna
  Santa Anna, TX 76878
  915/348-3283
  Open: On Request
  Type: History
  Exhibits: One-Room Pioneer Cabin
  Fee: None


_SAN YGNACIO, ZAPATA COUNTY_

  LA PAZ
  300 Block of Lincoln in the Elementary School
  P.O. Box 219
  San Ygnacio, TX 78067
  512/765-5611
  Open: Weekdays, 9-3
  Type: General
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_SARATOGA, HARDIN COUNTY_

  BIG THICKET MUSEUM
  F.R. 770
  Saratoga, TX 77585
  409/274-5000
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 9-5; Sun., 1-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Programs Relating to the Big Thicket Area
  Fee: $1


_SEABROOK, HARRIS COUNTY_

  BAY AREA MUSEUM
  Clearlake Park Annex
  Nasa Rd. 1
  Seabrook, TX 77586
  713/333-2015
  Open: Tues., Thurs., Sat., 9-5; Special Tours By Appointment
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History of the Bay Area
  Fee: Donation


_SEAGRAVES, GAINES COUNTY_

  GAINES COUNTY MUSEUM AND ART CENTER—SEAGRAVES-LOOP DIVISION
  Main St. and Hill Ave.
  P.O. Box 1387
  Seagraves, TX 79359
  806/546-2810
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 2-5
  Type: General/History/Art/Historic Site/Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Art, Historic Site and Building
  Fee: None


_SEGUIN, GUADALUPE COUNTY_

  A. M. AND ALMA FIEDLER MEMORIAL MUSEUM
  Texas Lutheran College
  Langner Hall
  Seguin, TX 78155
  512/379-4161
  Open: College Hours and Upon Request
  Type: Science
  Exhibits: Archeology, Prehistory, Mineralogy, and Geology
  Fee: None

  LOS NOGALES MUSEUM
  South River and East Live Oak Sts.
  P.O. Box 245
  Seguin, TX 78155
  512/379-1567 or 372-0055
  Open: Sun., 2-4; and By Appointment
  Type: General/Historic Site/Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: Donation


_SEYMOUR, BAYLOR COUNTY_

  BAYLOR COUNTY HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  200 West McLain
  Seymour, TX 76380
  No Telephone
  Open: Tues. and Thurs., 12:30-4:30
  Type: History
  Exhibits: 1880s Era Home of Judge E.R. Norris
  Fee: Donation


_SHALLOWATER, LUBBOCK COUNTY_

  LUBBOCK COUNTY MUSEUM
  10th and Ave. G
  Shallowater, TX 79363
  806/741-8005
  Open: Daily from Daylight to Dark
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Collection of Outdoor Exhibits of Farm Equipment
  Fee: None


_SHAMROCK, WHEELER COUNTY_

  PIONEER WEST MUSEUM
  206 North Madden
  Shamrock, TX 79079
  806/256-3941
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 1-5; Sat.-Sun., By Appointment
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_SHERMAN, GRAYSON COUNTY_

  OLD SETTLERS VILLAGE
  Loy Lake, 6½ Miles North of FM 131
  P.O. Box 351
  Sherman, TX 75090
  214/893-2718
  Open: Write for Hours
  Type: History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building and Site
  Fee: Write for Information

  SHERMAN HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  301 South Walnut
  Sherman, TX 75090
  214/893-7623
  Open: Fri., 9-12, 1-5; Sat.-Sun., 2-5
  Type: History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_SHINER, LAVACA COUNTY_

  EDWIN WOLTERS MEMORIAL MUSEUM
  306 South Ave. 1
  Shiner, TX 77984
  No Telephone
  Open: Second and Fourth Sun. of Each Month, 2-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Items Pertain to the Wolters Family and to the History of
              Shiner
  Fee: Donation


_SIERRA BLANCA, HUDSPETH COUNTY_

  E. A. (“DOGIE”) WRIGHT COLLECTION
  Hudspeth County Abstract and Title Co. Building
  East of Intersection of U.S. 80 and F.R. 1111
  P.O. Box 100
  Sierra Blanca, TX 79851
  915/369-2011
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 10-12, 1-4
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Southern History along Mexican
              Border
  Fee: None


_SINTON, SAN PATRICIO COUNTY_

  ROB AND BESSIE WELDER WILDLIFE FOUNDATION
  7.4 Miles Northeast of Sinton
  Sinton, TX 78387
  512/364-2643
  Open: Call for Tour Information
  Type: General
  Exhibits: Wildlife, Conservation, and the Relationship of Wildlife to
              Other Uses of the Land
  Fee: None


_SKIDMORE, BEE COUNTY_

  SKIDMORE HISTORICAL SOCIETY MUSEUM
  Eighth and Sullivan Sts. (U.S. 181)
  Skidmore, TX 78389
  512/287-3237
  Open: Sun., 2-4
  Type: History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Restored House, Barn, and Jail
  Fee: None


_SLATON, LUBBOCK COUNTY_

  SLATON MUSEUM
  155 North Eighth St.
  Box 555
  Slaton, TX 79364
  806/828-6101
  Open: Tues.-Fri., 1-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Railroad History
  Fee: None


_SNYDER, SCURRY COUNTY_

  DIAMOND M FOUNDATION MUSEUM
  907 25th St.
  P.O. Box 1149
  Snyder, TX 79549
  915/573-6311
  Open: Tues.-Fri., 9-12, 1-4; Sat.-Sun., 1-4
  Type: Art
  Exhibits: Art
  Fee: None

  SCURRY COUNTY MUSEUM
  Western Texas College
  P.O. Box 696
  Snyder, TX 79549
  915/573-6107
  Open: Mon.-Thurs., 9-12; Fri., 9-12, 1-4; Sun., 1-4
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_SOMERVILLE, BURLESON COUNTY_

  SOMERVILLE HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  P.O. Box 782
  Somerville, TX 77879
  409/569-1819 or 1224
  Open: Wed., 1-4; Sat., 10-12, 1-4
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Archeology, Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: Donation


_SONORA, SUTTON COUNTY_

  MIERS HOME MUSEUM
  307 East Oak St. (North of the Courthouse)
  Sonora, TX 76950
  No Telephone
  Open: Tues., 2-4
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Turn-of-the-Century Memorabilia
  Fee: None


_SPEARMAN, HANSFORD COUNTY_

  STATIONMASTER’S HOUSE MUSEUM
  30 South Townsend St.
  Spearman, TX 79081
  806/659-3008
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 9-5
  Type: General/History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building
  Fee: Donation


_SPUR, DICKENS COUNTY_

  MARGARET A. ELLIOT MUSEUM
  Burlington Ave.
  Box 303
  Spur, TX 79370
  915/271-3238 or 3350
  Open: All Day, Mon. and Wed.; Half Day, Tues., Thurs., and Sat.
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Archeology, Prehistory, and
              Mineralogy
  Fee: None


_STAMFORD, JONES COUNTY_

  BUIE’S GENERAL STORE
  115-119 North Swenson
  Box 1146
  Stamford, TX 79553
  915/773-3636
  Open: Daily, 10-7
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None

  COWBOY COUNTRY MUSEUM
  113 South Wetherbee
  Stamford, TX 79553
  915/773-2411
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 8:30-12, 1-4:30; Sat.-Sun., By Appointment
  Type: History/Art
  Exhibits: Farm and Ranch Artifacts of the Early 20th Century
  Fee: Donation


_STANTON, MARTIN COUNTY_

  HISTORIC JAIL BUILDING
  Courthouse Square
  Stanton, TX 79782
  915/756-3336
  Open: By Appointment at the Sheriff’s Office
  Type: History
  Exhibits: History of Law Enforcement in Martin County
  Fee: None

  MARTIN COUNTY HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  207 Broadway St.
  Box 929
  Stanton, TX 79782
  915/756-2700
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 1-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_STEPHENVILLE, ERATH COUNTY_

  STEPHENVILLE HISTORICAL HOUSE MUSEUM
  525 East Washington
  Stephenville, TX 76401
  No Telephone
  Open: Tues.-Sun., 2-5
  Type: History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: J. D. Berry Home, Carriage House, 1899 Gothic Church, and
              Two Log Cabins
  Fee: Donation


_STRATFORD, SHERMAN COUNTY_

  SHERMAN COUNTY DEPOT
  213 North Main
  Box 1248
  Stratford, TX 79084
  806/396-2494
  Open: By Appointment
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: Donation


_SULPHUR SPRINGS, HOPKINS COUNTY_

  HOPKINS COUNTY MUSEUM AND HERITAGE PARK
  416 North Jackson St.
  Sulphur Springs, TX 75482
  214/885-2387 or 5424
  Open: Sat., 1-4; Sun., 2-4
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: Adults $1; Children 50¢


_SUNSET, MONTAGUE COUNTY_

  OLD WEST MUSEUM
  Off Highway 287, 5 Miles South of Bowie
  Sunset, TX 76270
  817/872-2027
  Open: Daily, 8-6
  Type: History/General
  Exhibits: Wells-Fargo Express, Early Ranching, and Residents of the
              Area
  Fee: Adults 50¢


_SWEETWATER, NOLAN COUNTY_

  CITY-COUNTY PIONEER MUSEUM
  610 East Third
  Sweetwater, TX 79556
  915/235-3627
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 2-5
  Type: History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building
  Fee: None


_TAHOKA, LYNN COUNTY_

  TAHOKA PIONEER MUSEUM
  1600 Lockwood
  Tahoka, TX 79373
  806/998-5339
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 11-4
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_TAYLOR, WILLIAMSON COUNTY_

  MOODY MUSEUM
  114 West Ninth St.
  P.O. Box 765
  Taylor, TX 76574
  512/352-2485
  Open: By Appointment
  Type: History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building and Site
  Fee: Donation


_TEAGUE, FREESTONE COUNTY_

  BURLINGTON-ROCK ISLAND RAILROAD MUSEUM
  208 South Third Ave.
  Teague, TX 75860
  817/739-2645
  Open: Sat.-Sun., 1-5
  Type: History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building and Site,
              Railroad History
  Fee: Adults $1; Children 50¢


_TEMPLE, BELL COUNTY_

  RAILROAD AND PIONEER MUSEUM
  710 Jack Baskin St.
  P.O. Box 5126
  Temple, TX 76501
  817/778-6873
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 1-4
  Type: General/History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building
  Fee: Adults 50¢; Children 35¢

  SPJST MUSEUM
  520 North Main St.
  P.O. Box 100
  Temple, TX 76501
  817/773-1575
  Open: Daily, 8-12, 1-5; and By Appointment
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_TERRELL, KAUFMAN COUNTY_

  SILENT WINGS MUSEUM
  Municipal Airport
  Terrell, TX 75160
  214/368-6097
  Open: Daily, 9-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Gliders of WWII Vintage
  Fee: $5 for Nonmembers

  TERRELL HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  207 North Frances St.
  Terrell, TX 75160
  214/563-6463
  Open: Wed., 2-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_TEXARKANA, BOWIE COUNTY_

  TEXARKANA HISTORICAL SOCIETY AND MUSEUM
  219 State Line Ave.
  P.O. Box 2343
  Texarkana, TX 75504
  214/793-4831
  Open: Weekdays, 10-4; Sat.-Sun., 12-3
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Prehistory and Archeology
  Fee: None


_TEXAS CITY, GALVESTON COUNTY_

  COLLEGE OF THE MAINLAND ART GALLERY
  8001 Palmer Highway
  Texas City, TX 77591
  409/762-7723, ext. 348
  Open: Mon.-Thurs., 10-4; By Appointment
  Type: Art
  Exhibits: Regional and National Artists
  Fee: None


_TILDEN, McMULLEN COUNTY_

  McMULLEN COUNTY MUSEUM AND ARCHIVES
  S.H. 16
  Tilden, TX 78072
  512/274-3305 or 3341 or 784-3285
  Open: Sun., 2-5; and By Appointment
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Maps, Books, Pictures, a Collection of Family Histories and
              Items Used by Indians and Early Pioneers in McMullen
              County
  Fee: None


_TOMBALL, HARRIS COUNTY_

  CHARLTON MUSEUM
  500 Block of North Pine
  Tomball, TX 77375
  713/255-2148
  Open: By Appointment
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Farm Equipment, Texana Library, Gun Collection, and
              Horse-Powered Cotton Press; Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: Adults $1; Children 50¢


_TULIA, SWISHER COUNTY_

  SWISHER COUNTY ARCHIVES AND MUSEUM
  Swisher Memorial Building
  127 West Second St.
  Tulia, TX 79088
  806/995-2819
  Open: Mon., Tues., Thurs., Fri., 1-4; Sat., 9-12; Sun., By Appointment
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_TURKEY, HALL COUNTY_

  BOB WILLS MUSEUM
  Sixth and Lyles St.
  Turkey, TX 79261
  806/423-1231
  Open: Mon.-Wed., 8-5; By Appointment at Other Times
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Fiddles, Boots, Hats, Records, Music, Photos, Books, and
              Other Original Memorabilia Related to Bob Wills and the
              Texas Playboys
  Fee: None


_TYLER, SMITH COUNTY_

  GOODMAN MUSEUM
  624 North Broadway
  Tyler, TX 75701
  214/597-5304
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 1-5
  Type: General/History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Artifacts of East Texas Indians, Civil War Flags, Dr. W.J.
              Goodman’s Instruments, Antique Furniture, and Early Photos
              of Tyler and Smith County
  Fee: None

  TYLER MUSEUM OF ART
  1300 South Mahon Ave.
  Tyler, TX 75701
  214/595-1001
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 10-5; Sun., 1-5
  Type: Art
  Exhibits: Temporary Exhibits Focusing on an Artist or Collection of
              Works
  Fee: None


_UVALDE, UVALDE COUNTY_

  GARNER MEMORIAL MUSEUM
  333 North Park St.
  Uvalde, TX 78801
  512/278-5018
  Open: Daily, 9-12, 1-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Brick House Belonging to John Nance Garner, Collection of
              Gavels, Historical Items Pertaining to Early Uvalde County
              Settlement
  Fee: None

  UVALDE’S GRAND OPERA HOUSE VISITORS CENTER
  100 Northwest St.
  Uvalde, TX 78801
  512/278-4082
  Open: Call for Hours
  Type: History
  Exhibits: History of Uvalde from 1849 through 1920
  Fee: None


_VALLEY MILLS, BOSQUE COUNTY_

  VALLEY MILLS HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  Santa Fe Park
  Box 168
  Valley Mills, TX 76689
  No Telephone
  Open: First and Third Sun. of Each Month, 2-5
  Type: History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building and Site
  Fee: None


_VAN ALSTYNE, GRAYSON COUNTY_

  VAN ALSTYNE MUSEUM
  216 East Jefferson St.
  Van Alstyne, TX 75095
  214/482-5991
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 1-4
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: Call for Information


_VAN HORN, CULBERSON COUNTY_

  CULBERSON COUNTY HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  112 Commerce on U.S. 80
  P.O. Box 1255
  Van Horn, TX 79855
  915/283-2243
  Open: Mon., 9-12 and Sun., 1-5
  Type: General/History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Mineralogy
  Fee: None


_VERNON, WILBARGER COUNTY_

  BIRD EGG COLLECTION OF ROBERT L. MORE, SR.
  1907 Wilbarger St.
  Vernon, TX 76384
  817/552-2506
  Open: By Appointment; Closed in Winter until Easter
  Type: General
  Exhibits: More than 750 Eggs and Bird Species
  Fee: None

  RED RIVER VALLEY MUSEUM
  2030 Cumberland
  Vernon, TX 76384
  817/553-4682 or 522-2936
  Open: Daily, 1-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Indian Artifacts; Sculpture; Camera Collection and
              Photographs; Other Objects Relating to the History of
              Vernon and Wilbarger County
  Fee: None


_VICTORIA, VICTORIA COUNTY_

  McNAMARA HOUSE MUSEUM
  502 North Liberty St.
  Victoria, TX 77901
  512/575-8227
  Open: Tues., 10-12, 1-5; Wed. and Thurs., 10-12, 3-5; Sun., 3-5
  Type: History/Historic Site/Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Natural History, Art, Historic
              Building and Site
  Fee: None

  THE NAVE MUSEUM
  306 West Commercial
  Victoria, TX 77901
  512/575-8227
  Open: Tues.-Sun., 1-5
  Type: Art
  Exhibits: Art
  Fee: None


_VILLAGE MILLS, HARDIN COUNTY_

  WILDWOOD HISTORICAL SOCIETY MUSEUM
  P.O. Box 64, Wildwood
  Village Mills, TX 77663
  409/834-2376
  Open: On Request and at All Functions at Lodge Building
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_VIOLET, NUECES COUNTY_

  VIOLET MUSEUM
  12 Miles West of Corpus Christi on S.H. 44
  Violet, TX 78380
  512/387-2273
  Open: First Sunday after Easter and the Second Sunday in October,
              11-4; Group Tours By Appointment
  Type: General
  Exhibits: Old German Catholic Church; Original Altar, Wooden Pump
              Organ, Various Memorabilia
  Fee: Adults $1; Children 75¢


_WACO, McLENNAN COUNTY_

  ARMSTRONG BROWNING LIBRARY
  Eighth and Speight Sts.
  P.O. Box 6336
  Waco, TX 76706
  817/755-3566
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 9-12, 2-4; Sat., 9-12
  Type: Art/Literary
  Exhibits: Art and Literary
  Fee: None

  CHAMPE-CARTER McCULLOCH HOUSE
  407 Columbus Ave.
  Waco, TX 76701
  817/753-5166
  Open: Sat.-Sun., 2-5
  Type: General/History/Art/Historic Site/Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Art, Botany, Historic Site and
              Building
  Fee: Adults $2; Students $1

  EARLE-HARRISON HOUSE
  1901 North Fifth St.
  P.O. Box 5224
  Waco, TX 76708
  817/753-2032
  Open: Appointment Only
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Historic Building and Site
  Fee: $2 per Person

  EARLE-NAPIER-KINNARD HOUSE
  814 South Fourth St.
  Waco, TX 76706
  817/756-0057
  Open: Weekends, 2-5; and By Appointment
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: Adults $2; Students $1.50

  EAST TERRACE
  100 Mill St.
  P.O. Box 3222
  Waco, TX 76704
  817/756-4101
  Open: Sat.-Sun., 2-5
  Type: History/Historic Building/Site
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building and Site
  Fee: Adults $2; Students $1.50

  FORT HOUSE
  503 South Fourth
  Waco, TX 76706
  817/756-4161
  Open: Weekends, 2-5
  Type: Historic Site/Building
  Exhibits: Historic Site and Building, Clothing, and Glassware
  Fee: Adults $2; Students $1.50

  HOMER GARRISON MEMORIAL MUSEUM
  Lake Brazos Park
  Box 1370
  Waco, TX 76703
  817/756-2211
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 9-6; Sun., 1-6
  Type: History
  Exhibits: History and Heritage of the Texas Rangers
  Fee: 25¢

  LEE LOCKWOOD AND TEXAS SCOTTISH RITE LIBRARY AND MUSEUM
  3801 West Waco Dr.
  P.O. Box 266
  Waco, TX 76707
  817/754-3942
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 9-4
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None

  MASONIC GRAND LODGE LIBRARY AND MUSEUM OF TEXAS
  715 Columbus Ave.
  Waco, TX 76703
  817/753-7395
  Open: Weekdays, 9-4
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Records, Artifacts, and History of the Masons in Texas
  Fee: None

  SIMS LOG CABIN
  1020 Sleepy Hollow
  Waco, TX 76710
  817/772-3202
  Open: By Appointment
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Log Cabin, Indian Relics, Period Furnishings and Memorabilia
  Fee: None

  STRECKER MUSEUM
  Sid Richardson Science Building
  South Fourth St.
  Baylor University
  Waco, TX 76798
  817/755-1110
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 9-4; Sat., 10-1; Sun., 2-5
  Type: General
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Science, Natural History,
              Archeology, Prehistory, Botany, Mineralogy, and Living
              Habitats
  Fee: None

  TEXAS RANGER HALL OF FAME AND MUSEUM
  I-35 and the Brazos River
  Waco, TX 76703
  817/754-1433
  Open: Daily, 9-5, September 1-May 31; 9-6, June 1-August 31
  Type: History
  Exhibits: 150 Years of Ranger History
  Fee: Adults $2.50; Children $1.50

  TEXAS TENNIS MUSEUM AND HALL OF FAME
  Waco Drive at 14th
  Waco, TX 76707
  817/756-2307
  Open: Wed.-Sun., 2-5; Other Hours By Appointment
  Type: General
  Exhibits: “Tennis Towns of Texas,” and the “Hall of Fame,” which
              features portraits of the first six inductees
  Fee: None

  THE ART CENTER
  1300 College Dr.
  Waco, TX 76708
  817/752-4371
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 10-5; Sun., 1-5
  Type: Art
  Exhibits: Art
  Fee: None

  YOUTH CULTURAL CENTER
  815 Columbus Ave.
  Waco, TX 76703
  817/752-9641, ext. 36
  Open: Mon.-Fri., 9-12; and By Appointment
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Children’s Museum Telling the Story of Civilization from
              Prehistoric Times to the Space Age
  Fee: None


_WALLISVILLE, CHAMBERS COUNTY_

  WALLISVILLE HERITAGE PARK
  I-10, Exit 807
  P.O. Box 16
  Wallisville, TX 77597
  409/389-2252 or 2253
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 8-5
  Type: History/Historic Site/Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Archeology, Prehistory, Historic
              Site and Building
  Fee: None


_WASHINGTON, WASHINGTON COUNTY_

  STAR OF THE REPUBLIC MUSEUM
  Washington-on-the-Brazos State Historical Park
  P.O. Box 317
  Washington, TX 77880
  409/878-2461
  Open: Daily, 10-5, March-August; Wed.-Sun., September-February
  Type: History/Historic Site
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Archeology, Prehistory, Historic
              Building and Site
  Fee: None


_WAXAHACHIE, ELLIS COUNTY_

  ELLIS COUNTY MUSEUM, INC.
  201 South College
  P.O. Box 706
  Waxahachie, TX 75165
  214/937-9383
  Open: Mon. and Wed., 9-5; Sun., 1-5
  Type: General/History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building
  Fee: None

  MAHONEY-THOMPSON HOUSE
  604 West Main
  Waxahachie, TX 75165
  214/937-1061
  Open: Mon. and Wed., 9-5; Sun., 1-5
  Type: Historic Building
  Exhibits: 1904 Greek Revival Mansion; Cheatham Collection of Antique
              Fans, Porcelains, and Furniture
  Fee: None


_WEATHERFORD, PARKER COUNTY_

  PARKER COUNTY MUSEUM AND TRADING POST
  112 West Oak
  Weatherford, TX 76086
  817/441-9210 or 594-2258
  Open: Thurs.-Sat., 9-5; Wed., 12-5
  Type: General/History/Art/Historic Site/Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Natural History, Art, Historic
              Building and Site
  Fee: None

  WEATHERFORD DEPOT MUSEUM
  410 Fort Worth St.
  Weatherford, TX 76086
  817/594-3801
  Open: Call for Hours
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Old Santa Fe Depot
  Fee: Call for Admission Fee


_WELLINGTON, COLLINGSWORTH COUNTY_

  COLLINGSWORTH COUNTY MUSEUM
  1404 15th St.
  Wellington, TX 79095
  806/447-5857
  Open: By Appointment
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Rural Life in West Texas
  Fee: Call for Admission Fee


_WESLACO, HIDALGO COUNTY_

  WESLACO BICULTURAL MUSEUM
  527 South Kansas
  Weslaco, TX 78956
  512/968-9142
  Open: Wed.-Thurs., 2-4; Fri., 10-12, 2-4
  Type: History
  Exhibits: History of Weslaco through Artifacts, Furniture,
              Photographs, and Magazine Clippings
  Fee: None


_WHARTON, WHARTON COUNTY_

  WHARTON COUNTY HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  231 Fulton
  Wharton, TX 77488
  409/532-2600
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 2-5; Sun., 2-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_WHEELER, WHEELER COUNTY_

  OLD MOBEETIE MUSEUM
  Old Mobeetie Jail
  South of Highway 152
  Box 189
  Wheeler, TX 79096
  806/826-3289
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 10-5; Sun., 1-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building and Site
  Fee: None


_WHITEFACE, COCHRAN COUNTY_

  WHITEFACE HISTORICAL SOCIETY
  Box 65
  Whiteface, TX 79379
  806/287-1182
  Open: Call for Hours
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History
  Fee: None


_WICHITA FALLS, WICHITA COUNTY_

  KELL HOUSE
  900 Bluff
  Wichita Falls, TX 76301
  817/723-0623
  Open: Sun., 2-4, for Guided Tours
  Type: History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Family Furnishings, Textiles, Photographs, and Clothing from
              the 1909 to 1940 Period
  Fee: Nominal Admission Fee

  WICHITA FALLS MUSEUM AND ART CENTER
  #2 Eureka Circle
  Wichita Falls, TX 76308
  817/692-0923
  Open: Mon.-Sat., 9-4:30; Sun., 1-5
  Type: History/Art/Science
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Science, Art, Planetarium
  Fee: None


_WIMBERLEY, HAYS COUNTY_

  PIONEER TOWN
  1 Mile South of Wimberley, 7A Ranch Resort
  Route 1, Box 259
  Wimberley, TX 78676
  512/847-2517
  Open: Daily, 10-10, June-August; Weekends, 1-5:30, September-May
  Type: Art/Historic Building/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Art
  Fee: 25¢ Parking


_WINDTHORST, ARCHER COUNTY_

  ARCHER COUNTY MUSEUM
  Route 1
  Windthorst, TX 76389
  817/423-6426
  Open: Sat., Sun., Holidays, 9-5
  Type: General/History/Art/Science/Historic Site/Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Science, Natural History, Art,
              Archeology, Prehistory, Historic Building and Site
  Fee: None


_WINK, WINKLER COUNTY_

  HELMER MERCANTILE LOCK AND TOOL MUSEUM
  123 North Pyote St.
  Wink, TX 79789
  915/527-3469
  Open: Sun., 2-6; Special Tours on Weekdays By Appointment
  Type: History
  Exhibits: 19th-Century Tools; Old Ranch Hand Shack; Fire Truck
  Fee: None


_WINTERS, RUNNELS COUNTY_

  Z. I. HALE MUSEUM
  242 West Dale St.
  Winters, TX 79567
  No Telephone
  Open: Second Sun. of Each Month, 2-4; and Special Occasions
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Antiques and Other Objects Relating to Community Life
  Fee: None


_WOODVILLE, TYLER COUNTY_

  ALLAN SHIVERS MUSEUM
  302 North Charlton St.
  Woodville, TX 75979
  409/283-3709
  Open: Weekdays, 9-5; Sat., 10-2; Sun., By Appointment
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Memorabilia of Shiver’s Term as Governor
  Fee: Adults 50¢; Children 25¢

  HERITAGE GARDEN VILLAGE
  U.S. 190 West, Just Outside the City Limits
  P.O. Box 666
  Woodville, TX 75979
  409/283-2272
  Open: Daily; Winter, 9-5; Summer, 9:30-5:30
  Type: History/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building
  Fee: Adults $1.50; Children 75¢


_YOAKUM, LAVACA-DEWITT COUNTY_

  YOAKUM HERITAGE MUSEUM
  215 Nelson St.
  P.O. Box 2
  Yoakum, TX 77995
  512/293-6473
  Open: Tues.-Sun., 3-5
  Type: General/History
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Natural History
  Fee: None


_YORKTOWN, DEWITT COUNTY_

  YORKTOWN HISTORICAL MUSEUM
  Corner of West Main and Eckhardt Sts.
  P.O. Box 884
  Yorktown, TX 78164
  512/564-2661
  Open: March-November, Sun. and Thurs., 3-5; December-February, Sun.,
              2-5
  Type: General/Historic Building
  Exhibits: Local and Pioneer History, Historic Building and Site
  Fee: None




    STATE PARKS AND WILDLIFE HISTORIC SITES AND INTERPRETIVE CENTERS


_ALBANY, SHACKELFORD COUNTY_

  FORT GRIFFIN STATE HISTORICAL PARK
  15 Miles North of Albany, U.S. 283
  Route 1
  Albany, TX 76430
  915/762-3592
  Open: Daily, 8-5
  Type: Military History
  Exhibits: State Park
  Fee: $2/Car Park Entrance


_ALTO, CHEROKEE COUNTY_

  CADDOAN MOUNDS STATE HISTORICAL SITE
  6 Miles Southwest of Alto, S.H. 21
  Route 2, Box 85C
  Alto, TX 75925
  409/858-3218
  Open: Wed.-Sun., 8-5
  Type: Prehistory
  Exhibits: Prehistoric Site
  Fee: Adults $1; Children 50¢


_AUSTIN, TRAVIS COUNTY_

  McKINNEY FALLS STATE PARK
  9 Miles South of Austin, U.S. 183, 2 Miles West on Scenic Dr.
  Route 2, Box 701B
  Austin, TX 78760
  512/243-2177
  Open: Thurs.-Mon., 9-12, 1-6; Tues.-Wed., 9-12, 1-3
  Type: Natural History, History
  Exhibits: State Park
  Fee: $2/Car Park Entrance


_CANYON, RANDALL COUNTY_

  PALO DURO CANYON STATE PARK
  12 Miles East of Canyon, S.H. 217
  Route 2, Box 285
  Canyon, TX 79015
  806/488-2227
  Open: September-April, Sat.-Sun., 8-5; May, Fri.-Sun.; June-August,
              Daily
  Type: History
  Exhibits: State Park
  Fee: $2/Car Park Entrance


_CASTROVILLE, MEDINA COUNTY_

  LANDMARK INN STATE HISTORIC SITE
  U.S. 90 at Medina River Bridge
  P.O. Box 577
  Castroville, TX 78009
  512/538-2133
  Open: Daily, 8-8
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Historic Inn
  Fee: Adults $1; Children 25¢


_COMSTOCK, VAL VERDE COUNTY_

  SEMINOLE CANYON STATE HISTORICAL PARK
  9 Miles West of Comstock, U.S. 90
  P.O. Box 806
  Comstock, TX 78837
  915/292-4464
  Open: Daily, 8-5
  Type: Prehistory/History
  Exhibits: State Park
  Fee: $2/Car Park Entrance


_DENISON, GRAYSON COUNTY_

  EISENHOWER BIRTHPLACE STATE HISTORIC SITE
  208 East Day
  Denison, TX 75020
  214/465-1956
  Open: June-August, Daily, 8-6; September-May, 10-5
  Type: Historic Furnishings
  Exhibits: Historic House
  Fee: Adults $1; Children 25¢


_EL PASO, EL PASO COUNTY_

  MAGOFFIN HOME STATE HISTORIC SITE
  1120 Magoffin Ave.
  El Paso, TX 79901
  915/533-5147
  Open: Wed.-Sun., 9-4
  Type: Historic Furnishings
  Exhibits: Historic House
  Fee: Adults $1; Children 25¢


_FANNIN, GOLIAD COUNTY_

  FANNIN BATTLEGROUND STATE HISTORIC SITE
  9 Miles East of Goliad, U.S. 59
  Fannin, TX 77960
  512/645-2020
  Open: Daily, 8-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: A Unit of Goliad State Park
  Fee: None


_FORT McKAVETT, MENARD COUNTY_

  FORT McKAVETT STATE HISTORIC SITE
  23 Miles West of Menard, U.S. 190 and F.M. 864
  P.O. Box 867
  Fort McKavett, TX 78641
  915/396-2358
  Open: Thurs.-Sun., 8-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Historic Site
  Fee: Adults $1; Children 25¢


_FREDERICKSBURG, GILLESPIE COUNTY_

  ADMIRAL NIMITZ STATE HISTORICAL PARK
  340 East Main
  P.O. Box 777
  Fredericksburg, TX 78624
  512/997-4379
  Open: Daily, 8-5
  Type: Military History
  Exhibits: Historic Hotel
  Fee: Adults $2; Children $1


_FULTON, ARANSAS COUNTY_

  FULTON MANSION STATE HISTORIC STRUCTURE
  Henderson St. and Fulton Beach Rd.
  P.O. Box 1859
  Fulton, TX 78358
  512/729-0386
  Open: Wed.-Sun., 9-11:30, 1-4
  Type: Historic Furnishings
  Exhibits: Historic House
  Fee: Adults $1; Children 25¢


_GOLIAD, GOLIAD COUNTY_

  GOLIAD STATE HISTORICAL PARK
  1 Mile South of Goliad, U.S. 183
  P.O. Box 727
  Goliad, TX 77963
  512/645-3405
  Open: Daily, 8-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Historical Park
  Fee: $2/Car Park Entrance

  ZARAGOZA BIRTHPLACE
  1 Mile South of Goliad, U.S. 183
  P.O. Box 727
  Goliad, TX 77963
  512/645-3405
  Open: Advance Notice Required
  Type: History
  Exhibits: A Unit of Goliad State Park
  Fee: None


_GROESBECK, LIMESTONE COUNTY_

  OLD FORT PARKER STATE HISTORIC SITE
  4 Miles North of Groesbeck, S.H. 14
  Route 3, Box 220
  Groesbeck, TX 76642
  817/729-5253
  Open: Daily, Daylight till Dusk
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Historic Site
  Fee: Adults $1; Children 25¢


_HUNTSVILLE, WALKER COUNTY_

  HUNTSVILLE STATE PARK
  5 Miles South of Huntsville, I-45
  P.O. Box 508
  Huntsville, TX 77340
  409/295-5644
  Open: Daily, 8-5
  Type: Natural History
  Exhibits: State Park
  Fee: $2/Car Park Entrance


_JACKSBORO, JACK COUNTY_

  FORT RICHARDSON STATE HISTORICAL PARK
  South Edge of Jacksboro, U.S. 281
  P.O. Box 4
  Jacksboro, TX 76056
  817/567-3506
  Open: June-August, Daily, 9-5; March, May, September, Fri.-Mon.;
              October-February, Fri.-Sun.
  Type: Military History
  Exhibits: State Historical Park
  Fee: $2/Car Park Entrance


_KARNACK, HARRISON COUNTY_

  CADDO LAKE STATE PARK
  14 Miles Northeast of Marshall, S.H. 43
  Route 2, Box 15
  Karnack, TX 75661
  214/679-3351
  Open: Daily, 8-5
  Type: Natural History, History
  Exhibits: State Park
  Fee: $2/Car Park Entrance


_LA GRANGE, FAYETTE COUNTY_

  MONUMENT HILL/KREISCHE BREWERY STATE HISTORIC SITES
  1 Mile South of La Grange, U.S. 77
  P.O. Box C
  La Grange, TX 78945
  409/968-5658
  Open: Daily, 8-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Historic Sites
  Fee: Adults $1; Children 25¢


_LaPORTE, HARRIS COUNTY_

  BATTLESHIP TEXAS
  3527 Battleground Rd.
  LaPorte, TX 77571
  713/479-2711
  Open: September-May, Daily, 10-5; June-August, 10-6
  Type: Military History
  Exhibits: Historic Ship
  Fee: Adults $1; Children 25¢


_MONAHANS, WARD COUNTY_

  MONAHANS SANDHILLS STATE PARK
  6 Miles East of Monahans, I-20
  P.O. Box 1738
  Monahans, TX 79756
  915/943-2092
  Open: Daily, 8-5
  Type: Natural History
  Exhibits: State Park
  Fee: $2/Car Park Entrance


_PARIS, LAMAR COUNTY_

  SAM BELL MAXEY HOUSE
  812 South Church St.
  Paris, TX 75460
  214/785-5716
  Open: Thurs.-Mon., 10-5
  Type: Historic Furnishings
  Exhibits: Historic House
  Fee: Adults $1; Children 25¢


_PRESIDIO, PRESIDIO COUNTY_

  FORT LEATON STATE HISTORIC SITE
  4 Miles Southeast of Presidio, FM 170
  P.O. Box 1220
  Presidio, TX 79845
  915/229-3613
  Open: Daily, 8-5
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Historic Site
  Fee: Adults $1; Children 25¢


_QUANAH, HARDEMAN COUNTY_

  COPPER BREAKS STATE PARK
  12 Miles South of Quanah, S.H. 6
  Route 3
  Quanah, TX 79252
  817/839-4331
  Open: September-May, Daily, 8-5; June-August, 8-10
  Type: Ethnology, History
  Exhibits: State Park
  Fee: $2/Car Park Entrance


_QUITAQUE, BRISCOE COUNTY_

  CAPROCK CANYONS STATE PARK
  3 Miles West of Quitaque, S.H. 86
  P.O. Box 204
  Quitaque, TX 79225
  806/455-1492
  Open: Daily, Daylight to Dark
  Type: Prehistory, Natural History
  Exhibits: State Park
  Fee: $2/Car Park Entrance


_QUITMAN, WOOD COUNTY_

  GOVERNOR HOGG SHRINE STATE HISTORIC SITE
  S.H. 37 South in Quitman
  Route 3, Park Rd. 45
  Quitman, TX 75783
  214/763-2701
  Open: Thurs.-Mon., 8-12, 1-5
  Type: History, Historic Furnishings
  Exhibits: Historic Site
  Fee: Adults $1; Children 25¢


_RICHMOND, FORT BEND COUNTY_

  BRAZOS BEND STATE PARK
  15 Miles South of Richmond, FM 762
  Route 1, Box 840
  Needville, TX 77461
  409/553-3243
  Open: Summer 1985
  Type: Natural History
  Exhibits: State Park
  Fee: $2/Car Park Entrance


_RUSK, CHEROKEE COUNTY_

  JIM HOGG STATE HISTORICAL PARK
  2 Miles Northeast of Rusk, U.S. 84
  Route 2, Box 29
  Rusk, TX 75785
  214/683-4850
  Open: Daily, 8-5
  Type: Historic Furnishings
  Exhibits: Historic House
  Fee: None


_SAN ANTONIO, BEXAR COUNTY_

  JOSE ANTONIO NAVARRO STATE HISTORIC SITE
  228 South Laredo
  San Antonio, TX 78207
  512/226-4801
  Open: Tues.-Sat., 10-4
  Type: Historic Furnishings
  Exhibits: Historic House
  Fee: Adults $1; Children 25¢


_SHEFFIELD, CROCKETT COUNTY_

  FORT LANCASTER STATE HISTORIC SITE
  6 Miles East of Sheffield, U.S. 290
  P.O. Box 306
  Sheffield, TX 78213
  915/836-4391
  Open: Daily, 8-5
  Type: Military History
  Exhibits: Historic Site
  Fee: Adults $1; Children 25¢


_STONEWALL, GILLESPIE COUNTY_

  LYNDON B. JOHNSON STATE PARK
  1 Mile East of Stonewall, U.S. 290
  P.O. Box 238
  Stonewall, TX 78671
  512/644-2252
  Open: Daily, 8-5
  Type: History, Living History Farm
  Exhibits: State Park
  Fee: None


_VANDERPOOL, BANDERA COUNTY_

  LOST MAPLES NATURAL AREA
  4 Miles North of Vanderpool, RR 187
  Station C Route
  Vanderpool, TX 78885
  512/966-3413
  Open: Daily, 8-5
  Type: Natural History
  Exhibits: Natural Area
  Fee: $2/Car Park Entrance


_WASHINGTON, WASHINGTON COUNTY_

  ANSON JONES HOUSE
  Washington-on-the-Brazos State Historical Park
  P.O. Box 305
  Washington, TX 77880
  409/872-2214
  Open: March-August, Daily, 10-5; September-February, Wed.-Sun.
  Type: Historic Furnishings
  Exhibits: Historic House
  Fee: Adults $2; Children $1

  WASHINGTON-ON-THE-BRAZOS STATE HISTORICAL PARK IN WASHINGTON
  P.O. Box 305
  Washington, TX 77880
  409/878-2214
  Open: January 1986
  Type: History
  Exhibits: Historical Park
  Fee: None


_WEST COLUMBIA, BRAZORIA COUNTY_

  VARNER-HOGG STATE HISTORIC SITE
  2 Miles North of West Columbia, S.H. 35
  P.O. Box 696
  West Columbia, TX 77486
  409/345-4656
  Open: Closed Spring 1980 to Summer 1986
  Type: Historic Furnishings
  Exhibits: Historic House
  Fee: Adults $1; Children 25¢




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.



*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TEXAS MUSEUM DIRECTORY, 1985 ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
